1. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S603-S628. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240349.

Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography Imaging in Therapeutic Clinical 
Trials in Alzheimer's Disease: An Overview of the Current State of the Art of 
Research.

Triumbari EKA(1), Chiaravalloti A(1)(2), Schillaci O(1), Mercuri NB(3)(4), 
Liguori C(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine and Prevention, University of Rome Tor Vergata, 
Rome, Italy.
(2)IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli, Italy.
(3)Department of Systems Medicine, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
(4)Neurology Unit, University Hospital of Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy.

The integration of positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) has 
revolutionized the landscape of Alzheimer's disease (AD) research and 
therapeutic interventions. By combining structural and functional imaging, 
PET/CT provides a comprehensive understanding of disease pathology and response 
to treatment assessment. PET/CT, particularly with 
2-deoxy-2-[fluorine-18]fluoro-D-glucose (18F-FDG), facilitates the visualization 
of glucose metabolism in the brain, enabling early diagnosis, staging, and 
monitoring of neurodegenerative disease progression. The advent of amyloid and 
tau PET imaging has further propelled the field forward, offering invaluable 
tools for tracking pathological hallmarks, assessing treatment response, and 
predicting clinical outcomes. While some therapeutic interventions targeting 
amyloid plaque load showed promising results with the reduction of cerebral 
amyloid accumulation over time, others failed to demonstrate a significant 
impact of anti-amyloid agents for reducing the amyloid plaques burden in AD 
brains. Tau PET imaging has conversely fueled the advent of disease-modifying 
therapeutic strategies in AD by supporting the assessment of neurofibrillary 
tangles of tau pathology deposition over time. Looking ahead, PET imaging holds 
immense promise for studying additional targets such as neuroinflammation, 
cholinergic deficit, and synaptic dysfunction. Advances in radiotracer 
development, dedicated brain PET/CT scanners, and Artificial 
Intelligence-powered software are poised to enhance the quality, sensitivity, 
and diagnostic power of molecular neuroimaging. Consequently, PET/CT remains at 
the forefront of AD research, offering unparalleled opportunities for 
unravelling the complexities of the disease and advancing therapeutic 
interventions, although it is not yet enough alone to allow patients' 
recruitment in therapeutic clinical trials.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240349
PMID: 39422956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S275-S283. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240308.

Genistein, A Phytoestrogen, Delays the Transition to Dementia in Prodromal 
Alzheimer's Disease Patients.

Viña J(1), Borrás C(1), Mas-Bargues C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Freshage Research Group, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Valencia, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Fragilidad y 
Envejecimiento Saludable-Instituto de Salud Carlos III (CIBERFES-ISCIII), 
INCLIVA, Valencia, Spain.

Alzheimer's disease is recognized as a complex condition influenced by multiple 
factors, necessitating a similarly multifaceted approach to treatment. Ideally, 
interventions should prioritize averting the progression to dementia. Given the 
chronic nature of the disease, long-term management strategies are required. 
Within this framework, lifestyle modifications and dietary supplements emerge as 
appealing options due to their minimal toxicity, limited side effects, and 
cost-effectiveness. This study presents findings from a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled bicentric pilot clinical trial, demonstrating the significant 
cognitive preservation associated with genistein, a phytoestrogen found in soy 
and various other dietary sources, among individuals with prodromal Alzheimer's 
disease. Our prior investigation utilizing APP/PS1 mice elucidated the specific 
mechanisms through which genistein operates, including anti-amyloid-β, 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiapoptotic effects. These findings 
underscore the potential of identifying bioactive compounds from dietary sources 
for the management of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240308
PMID: 39422955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S579-S601. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240206.

PET/CT/MRI in Clinical Trials of Alzheimer's Disease.

Høilund-Carlsen PF(1)(2), Alavi A(3), Barrio JR(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Research, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(3)Department of Radiology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, David Geffen UCLA School of 
Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

With the advent of PET imaging in 1976, 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose 
(FDG)-PET became the preferred method for in vivo investigation of cerebral 
processes, including regional hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease. With the 
emergence of amyloid-PET tracers, [11C]Pittsburgh Compound-B in 2004 and later 
[18F]florbetapir, [18F]florbetaben, and [18F]flumetamol, amyloid-PET has 
replaced FDG-PET in Alzheimer's disease anti-amyloid clinical trial treatments 
to ensure "amyloid positivity" as an entry criterion, and to measure 
treatment-related decline in cerebral amyloid deposits. MRI has been used to 
rule out other brain diseases and screen for 'amyloid-related imaging 
abnormalities' (ARIAs) of two kinds, ARIA-E and ARIA-H, characterized by edema 
and micro-hemorrhage, respectively, and, to a lesser extent, to measure changes 
in cerebral volumes. While early immunotherapy trials of Alzheimer's disease 
showed no clinical effects, newer monoclonal antibody trials reported decreases 
of 27% to 85% in the cerebral amyloid-PET signal, interpreted by the Food and 
Drug Administration as amyloid removal expected to result in a reduction in 
clinical decline. However, due to the lack of diagnostic specificity of 
amyloid-PET tracers, amyloid positivity cannot prevent the inclusion of 
non-Alzheimer's patients and even healthy subjects in these clinical trials. 
Moreover, the "decreasing amyloid accumulation" assessed by amyloid-PET imaging 
has questionable quantitative value in the presence of treatment-related brain 
damage (ARIAs). Therefore, future Alzheimer's clinical trials should disregard 
amyloid-PET imaging and focus instead on assessment of regional brain function 
by FDG-PET and MRI monitoring of ARIAs and brain volume loss in all trial 
patients.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240206
PMID: 39422954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S3-S22. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240189.

Amyloid-Directed Antibodies: Past, Present, and Future.

Noorda K(1), Noorda K(1), Sabbagh MN(2), Bertelson J(3), Singer J(4)(5), Decourt 
B(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(2)Alzheimer's and Memory Disorders Division, Barrow Neurological Institute, 
Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA; and The University of Texas Health at Austin, 
Austin, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Texas Tech 
University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(5)Department of Psychological Sciences, School of Medicine, Texas Tech 
University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX, USA.
(6)Roseman University of Health Sciences, Las Vegas, NV, USA.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative 
disorder in patient demographics over 65 years old causing debilitating 
cognitive impairment. Most commonly, AD is diagnosed clinically as "probable 
AD", and definitive diagnosis is confirmed through postmortem brain autopsies to 
detect extracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques and intraneuronal 
hyperphosphorylated tau tangles. The exact mechanism causing AD is still 
unknown, but treatments for AD have been actively investigated. Currently, 
immunotherapies have shown substantial promise in reducing the pathologic and 
clinical signs of AD.
OBJECTIVE: This review aims to evaluate passive immunotherapies deemed to have 
promise for further development and use in the treatment of AD.
METHODS: Immunotherapies were selected via a narrative review of medications 
that have potential clinical effectiveness with a status of FDA accepted, FDA 
fast-track, FDA status pending, or emerging therapies poised to pursue FDA 
approval.
RESULTS: This review has yielded two anti-Aβ monoclonal antibodies (mAb) that 
are currently fully FDA approved, one mAb granted FDA fast-track status, two 
therapies on hold, three discontinued medications, and three promising emerging 
therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that, in the near future, passive immunotherapies will 
be the preferred and evidence-based method of treatment for AD with the presence 
of brain Aβ deposits for both symptom management and potential slowing of 
disease progression. Specifically, lecanemab and donanemab will require further 
clinical studies to optimize patient selection based on safety profiles. Despite 
some key limitations, these two drugs are paving the way for disease-modifying 
treatments in patients displaying early signs of amyloid pathology.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240189
PMCID: PMC12312309
PMID: 39422953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST MNS declares the following 
ownership interests (Stock or stock options): NeuroTau, Optimal Cognitive Health 
Company, uMethod Health, Versanum, Athira, Cognoptix, TransDermix, Seq 
BioMarque, NeuroReserve, Cortexyme. MNS also declares to be a consultant for 
Alzheon, Biogen, Roche-Genentech, Eisai, KeifeRx, Lilly, Synaptogenix, 
NeuroTherapia, T3D, Signant Health, Novo Nordisk. JB is an ad-hoc lecturer for 
Eisai. All other authors have no conflict of interest to report.


5. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S443-S453. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240186.

Ketogenic Approaches for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

Gabuzyan R(1), Lee C(1), Nygaard HB(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology and Djavad Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Dementia represents one of the largest and most urgent public health problems 
across the globe. Modeling projections have estimated that delaying the onset of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) by 6 months would reduce the prevalence by 5%, while a 
delay of 12 months would reduce the prevalence by 10%. One approach to achieving 
a delay in the onset of AD is to investigate lifestyle interventions that could 
be widely implemented with a favorable risk-benefit relationship and 
socioeconomic profile. Amongst such interventions, there is increasing evidence 
to support the use of ketogenic interventions in AD. Indeed, it is well known 
that cerebral glucose metabolism is impaired in AD, even at a preclinical stage, 
and a growing body of literature suggests that these findings may represent a 
primary pathogenic mechanism leading to neurodegeneration. Ketones are readily 
taken up by the brain and can serve as an alternative energy source for neurons 
and glia, hypothetically bypassing the glucose uptake deficit in AD. In this 
invited review we discuss the preclinical as well as clinical work aiming to 
increase ketones as a primary intervention in AD, including variations of the 
ketogenic diet, medium chain triglyceride supplementation, and newer, more 
experimental approaches.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240186
PMID: 39422952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S141-S154. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240140.

Targeting Metals in Alzheimer's Disease: An Update.

Du B(1), Chen K(1), Wang W(1), Lei P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, National 
Clinical Research Center for Geriatrics, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, China.

One pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the dysregulated metal 
ions, e.g., zinc, copper, and iron in the affected brain regions. The 
dysregulation of metal homeostasis may cause neurotoxicity and directly 
addressing these dysregulated metals through metal chelation or mitigating the 
downstream neurotoxicity stands as a pivotal strategy for AD therapy. This 
review aims to provide an up-to-date comprehensive overview of the application 
of metal chelators and drugs targeting metal-related neurotoxicity, such as 
antioxidants (ferroptotic inhibitors), in the context of AD treatment. It 
encompasses an exploration of their pharmacological effects, clinical research 
progress, and potential underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240140
PMID: 39422951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S95-S113. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240078.

Leucettinib-21, a DYRK1A Kinase Inhibitor as Clinical Drug Candidate for 
Alzheimer's Disease and Down Syndrome.

Meijer L(1), Chrétien E(1), Ravel D(2).

Author information:
(1)Perha Pharmaceuticals, Hôtel de Recherche, Roscoff, Bretagne, France.
(2)Initial R&D Consulting, Paris, France.

Erratum in
    J Alzheimers Dis. 2025 Feb;103(3):975. doi: 10.1177/13872877241302181.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS) share a common therapeutic 
target, the dual-specificity, tyrosine phosphorylation activated kinase 1A 
(DYRK1A). Abnormally active DYRK1A is responsible for cognitive disorders 
(memory, learning, spatial localization) observed in both conditions. In DS, 
DYRK1A is overexpressed due to the presence of the DYRK1A gene on chromosome 21. 
In AD, calcium-activated calpains cleave full-length DYRK1A (FL-DYRK1A) into a 
more stable and more active, low molecular weight, kinase (LMW-DYRK1A). Genetic 
and pharmacological experiments carried out with animal models of AD and DS 
strongly support the idea that pharmacological inhibitors of DYRK1A might be 
able to correct memory/learning disorders in people with AD and DS. Starting 
from a marine sponge natural product, Leucettamine B, Perha Pharmaceuticals has 
optimized, through classical medicinal chemistry, and extensively characterized 
a small molecule drug candidate, Leucettinib-21. Regulatory preclinical safety 
studies in rats and minipigs have been completed and formulation of 
Leucettinib-21 has been optimized as immediate-release tablets. Leucettinib-21 
is now undergoing a phase 1 clinical trial (120 participants, including 12 
adults with DS and 12 patients with AD). The therapeutic potential of DYRK1A 
inhibitors in AD and DS is presented.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240078
PMID: 39422950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S317-S343. doi: 10.3233/JAD-240069.

Conquering Insulin Network Dysfunctions in Alzheimer's Disease: Where Are We 
Today?

de la Monte SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medicine, Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, Rhode Island Hospital, Lifespan Academic Institutions, and the 
Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI, USA.

Functional impairments in the brain's insulin and insulin-like growth factor 
(IGF) signal transduction networks are recognized mediators of dysregulated 
energy metabolism, a major driver of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
neurodegeneration cascade. AD-associated insulin-deficient and insulin-resistant 
states mimic those of diabetes mellitus and affect all cell types in the brain. 
Besides accounting for abundant amyloid-β and hyperphosphorylated tau lesions in 
AD, insulin/IGF pathway dysfunctions cause cortical atrophy, loss of synaptic 
plasticity, white matter myelin/oligodendrocyte degeneration, astrocyte and 
microglial neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, deficits in energy 
metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction, and microvascular disease. These same 
neuropathological processes have been linked to cognitive impairment in type 2 
diabetes mellitus, Parkinson's disease, and vascular dementia. Strategies to 
address metabolic mediators of cognitive impairment have been borrowed from 
diabetes and other insulin-resistant diseases and leveraged on preclinical AD 
model data. The repurposing of diabetes drugs led to clinical trials with 
intranasal insulin, followed by insulin sensitizers including metformin and 
peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor agonists, and then incretin mimetics 
primarily targeting GLP-1 receptors. In addition, other glucose-lowering agents 
have been tested for their efficacy in preventing cognitive declines. The 
strengths and limitations of these approaches are discussed. The main conclusion 
of this review is that we have now arrived at a stage in which it is time to 
address long-term deficits in trophic factor availability and receptor 
responsiveness, signaling abnormalities that extend beyond insulin and include 
IGFs and interconnected pathways, and the need for multi-pronged rather than 
single-pronged therapeutic targeting to remediate AD and other forms of 
neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-240069
PMCID: PMC11807374
PMID: 39422949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST S. M. de la Monte is an 
Editorial Board Member of this journal but was not involved in the peer-review 
process of this article nor had access to any information regarding its 
peer-review. The author has no conflict of interest to report.


9. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S455-S466. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231467.

Designing Newer Omega-3 Supplementation Trials for Cognitive Outcomes: A 
Systematic Review Guided Analysis.

Yassine HN(1), Carrasco AS(1), Badie DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Epidemiology cohorts reveal associations between levels or intake of 
omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) and a lower risk of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). However, the results of randomized clinical trials have been 
inconsistent.
OBJECTIVE: A systematic review was performed to understand the effects of n-3 
PUFA supplementation on cognition in adults. The objective was to present 
suggestions for new study designs to translate epidemiological findings into 
effective clinical trials.
METHODS: A database search was conducted on PubMed (MEDLINE) and Web of Science 
to retrieve articles published between 2000 and 2023 that evaluated the effects 
of n-3 PUFA supplementation on cognitive function. Subsequently, the search 
results were filtered to collect randomized controlled trials with 100 or more 
participants, n-3 PUFA supplementation was one of the interventions, cognition 
was an outcome of interest, and participants were at least 18 years of age.
RESULTS: A total of 24 articles met the inclusion criteria. In 5 of the 24 
studies reviewed, supplementation with n-3 PUFAs improved cognition. All four 
trials in persons with AD reported null outcomes. Most of the n-3 PUFA studies 
in cognitively normal individuals or participants with mild cognitive impairment 
were null, not powered to detect small effect sizes, or selected participants 
without dementia risk factors.
CONCLUSIONS: We recommend that newer n-3 PUFA supplement trials targeting AD 
prevention be personalized. For the general population, the null hypothesis 
appears to be correct, and future interventions are needed to identify and test 
dietary patterns that include PUFA-rich food rather than supplements.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231467
PMID: 39422948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S217-S234. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231415.

Alzheimer's Disease and (Phyto) Estrogen Treatment: Modification of Effects by 
Age, Type of Treatment, and Duration of Use.

Kuck MJ(1), Begde A(1), Hawkins K(1), Hogervorst E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Sports Exercise and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, 
Loughborough, UK.

BACKGROUND: There is a continued debate on whether menopausal hormone therapy 
(MHT) protects women against Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is also unclear 
whether phytoestrogen could be an alternative treatment for AD.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether mixed study findings may be due to differences 
in age at initiation of MHT and duration of prescription of different types of 
MHT using meta-analyses.
METHODS: After a systematic literature search, meta-analyses were carried out 
using Cochrane Revman 5.4.1.software including data from large nationwide 
studies of registered medically diagnosed AD and prescribed MHT. These analyses 
were stratified for duration and type of treatment, by age at start of 
prescription of therapy. Insufficient quality data were available for 
phytoestrogen treatment and AD meta-analyses.
RESULTS: A total of 912,157 women were included from five registries, of whom 
278,495 had developed AD during follow-up. Meta-analyses suggested a small 
increased AD risk after 5-10 years prescription of combination MHT regardless of 
age, and over 10 years only in women younger than 60 years of age. No 
association was seen for estrogen alone for women younger than 60 years of age, 
but AD risk did increase for women over 60 years of age for up to 5 years of MHT 
prescriptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination MHT should probably be prescribed for less than 5 years 
after menopause to reduce risk for AD, while estrogen alone should not be 
prescribed to women over 60. For phytoestrogen, small treatment trials suggested 
some benefit of tempeh (fermented soy), which should be investigated further.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231415
PMID: 39422947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S285-S298. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231372.

Pharmacodynamic and Clinical Effects of Ginkgo Biloba Extract EGb 761 and Its 
Phytochemical Components in Alzheimer's Disease.

Morató X(1)(2), Tartari JP(1), Pytel V(1)(2), Boada M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona-Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.

Extracts made from plants are complex mixtures of substances with varying 
compositions depending on the plant material and method of manufacture. This 
complexity makes it difficult for scientists and clinicians to interpret 
findings from pharmacological and clinical research. We performed a narrative 
review summarizing information on ginkgo biloba leaf extract, its composition, 
pharmacological data and clinical evidence supporting its administration for the 
treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Medicinal products containing ginkgo 
biloba leaf extract which are manufactured in compliance with the requirements 
of the European Pharmacopoeia are approved as medicinal products for the 
treatment of dementia and related conditions by drug regulatory agencies in 
Europe, Asia and South America. As multicomponent mixtures, they may affect 
various targets in the pathogenesis of AD, the most common form of dementia. 
Pharmacodynamic studies demonstrate the effects of EGb 761 and individual 
constituents on various pathophysiological features of experimentally induced 
cognitive impairment and neurodegeneration that could contribute to its clinical 
efficacy. The safety and efficacy in the treatment of AD and cognitive decline 
has been studied in randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. Most of the 
studies that investigate the effects of ginkgo biloba extract (GbE) used the 
special extract EGb 761, which makes it the best-researched plant preparation 
worldwide. It is therefore the only herbal alternative to standard-of-care 
anti-dementia drugs. However, the mechanism of action has not been fully 
elucidated yet, and the clinical studies in AD show heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231372
PMID: 39422946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S467-S477. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231277.

Supplementation with NAD+ Precursors for Treating Alzheimer's Disease: A 
Metabolic Approach.

Alghamdi M(1)(2), Braidy N(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, School of Psychiatry, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Department of Radiology and Medical Imaging, Faculty of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Prince Sattam bin Abdulaziz University, Alkharj, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurocognitive disorder. 
There is no cure for AD. Maintenance on intracellular levels of nicotinamide 
adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) has been reported to be a promising therapeutic 
strategy for the treatment of AD. NAD+ precursors that represent candidate 
targets include nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) and nicotinamide riboside 
(NR).
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review provides insights into the potential 
therapeutic value of NAD+ precursors including NMN and NR, for the treatment of 
AD using preclinical and clinical studies published in the last 5 years.
METHODS: The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis 
(PRISMA) protocol was followed to systematically search the literature using two 
databases.
RESULTS: We found 3 studies that used NMN to treat AD in preclinical murine 
models. However, human clinical trials using NMN as a therapeutic intervention 
in AD was not available in the current literature. We also found 4 studies that 
investigated the potential benefits of NR for the treatment of AD in preclinical 
models. We also found 2 human clinical trials that showed marked improvements in 
plasma and neuroimaging biomarkers, and cognitive measures following 
supplementation with NR.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of preclinical and clinical studies confirm the potential 
benefits of NAD+ precursors for the treatment of AD. However, further clinical 
studies are required to confirm the increasingly important value of NAD+ 
precursors as effective pharmacological interventions in the clinic.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231277
PMID: 39422945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S567-S578. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231276.

Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Alzheimer's Disease Drug Trials: A 
Mini-Review.

Alghamdi M(1)(2), Braidy N(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, School of Psychiatry, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Department of Radiology and Medical Imaging, Faculty of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Prince Sattam bin Abdulaziz University, Alkharj, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative 
pathology that leads to cognitive decline and dementia, particularly in older 
adults. It disrupts brain structure and function, with neurotoxic amyloid-β (Aβ) 
plaques being a primary pathological hallmark. Pharmacotherapeutic trials 
targeting Aβ and other AD pathological features aim to slow disease progression. 
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a non-invasive tool that 
visualizes brain functional activity, aiding in evaluating the efficacy of AD 
drugs in clinical trials.
OBJECTIVE: This mini-review explores the role of fMRI in evaluating the impact 
of AD pharmacotherapeutic clinical trials conducted in the past seven years.
METHODS: Literature was systematically searched using two databases. The risk of 
bias was assessed with the Revised Cochrane risk-of-bias tool (RoB-2) for 
randomized clinical trials (RCTs).
RESULTS: Four studies using fMRI to investigate AD drug efficacy were included. 
Cholinesterase, glutamatergic, and serotonergic drugs showed significant 
positive effects on brain functional activity, especially within the default 
mode network. Functional connectivity (FC) changes due to drug intake were 
linked to cerebellar and cholinergic decline in AD, correlating with improved 
global cognition and fMRI task performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent RCTs demonstrate fMRI's ability to reveal longitudinal FC 
pattern changes in response to AD drug treatments across disease stages. 
Positive FC changes in distinct brain regions suggest potential compensatory 
mechanisms from drug intake. However, these drugs have limited efficacy, 
necessitating further research to enhance specific pharmacological interventions 
for clinical application.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231276
PMID: 39422944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S41-S52. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231258.

BACE Inhibitor Clinical Trials for Alzheimer's Disease.

Watkins EA(1), Vassar R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Davee Department of Neurology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Mesulam Center for Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease, Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.

The amyloid hypothesis posits that the amyloid-β aggregates in the brain 
initiate a cascade of events that eventually lead to neuron loss and Alzheimer's 
disease. Recent clinical trials of passive immunotherapy with anti-amyloid-β 
antibodies support this hypothesis, because clearing plaques led to better 
cognitive outcomes. Orally available small molecule BACE1 inhibitors are another 
approach to slowing the buildup of plaques and thereby cognitive worsening by 
preventing the cleavage of amyloid-β protein precursor (AβPP) into amyloid-β 
peptide, the major component of plaques. This approach is particularly 
attractive because of their ease of use, low cost, and advanced clinical stage. 
However, although effective in preventing amyloid-β production in late-stage 
clinical trials, BACE inhibitors have been associated with early, 
non-progressive, likely reversible, cognitive decline. The clinical trials 
tested high levels of BACE inhibition, greater than 50%, whereas genetics 
suggest that even a 30% inhibition may be sufficient to protect from Alzheimer's 
disease. Aside from AβPP, BACE1 cleaves many other substrates in the brain that 
may be contributing to the cognitive worsening. It is important to know what the 
cause of cognitive worsening is, and if a lower level of inhibition would 
sufficiently slow the progress of pathology while preventing these unwanted side 
effects. Should these side effects be mitigated, BACE inhibitors could rapidly 
move forward in clinical trials either as a primary prevention strategy in 
individuals that are at risk or biomarker positive, or as a maintenance therapy 
following amyloid clearance with an anti-amyloid antibody.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231258
PMID: 39422943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S503-S520. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231250.

Acupuncture as a Complementary Therapy for Alzheimer's Disease.

Li H(1), Xiang Q(2), Ren R(1), Wang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Institute of Neurology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Acupuncture, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

 Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a significant global medical concern due to the 
aging population. AD is featured by gradual cognitive impairment, impacting 
daily functioning and causing behavioral and personality changes, causing 
disruptive psychiatric symptoms. While pharmacological interventions are the 
primary clinical approach, their efficacy is variable and limited. Acupuncture, 
with its distinctive theoretical framework and treatment approach, has garnered 
attention as a non-pharmacological intervention for AD through extensive 
preclinical and clinical research. Neurobiological investigations into the 
machinery of acupuncture in AD have provided compelling evidence of its 
therapeutic efficacy and unique advantages. This review commences with an 
in-depth exploration of acupuncture's clinical applications, emphasizing its 
various parameters and its potential combination with first-line drugs and other 
therapies in the context of AD. Subsequently, we delve into the underlying 
therapeutic mechanisms of acupuncture in AD. Finally, we summarize these 
aspects, highlight current study limitations, and offer recommendations for 
future research. Taken together, in a rapidly aging society, both clinical 
application and mechanistic exploration of acupuncture in AD treatment have 
gained momentum. This trajectory suggests that acupuncture will continue to make 
significant strides in AD therapeutics as research progresses.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231250
PMID: 39422942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S79-S93. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231126.

Varoglutamstat: Inhibiting Glutaminyl Cyclase as a Novel Target of Therapy in 
Early Alzheimer's Disease.

Feldman HH(1)(2)(3), Messer K(1)(2), Qiu Y(4), Sabbagh M(5), Galasko D(1)(2)(3), 
Turner RS(6), Lopez O(7)(8), Smith A(9), Durant J(1)(2), Lupo JL(1)(2), Revta 
C(1)(2), Balasubramanian A(1)(2), Kuehn-Wache K(10), Wassmann T(10), 
Schell-Mader S(10), Jacobs DM(1)(2)(3), Salmon DP(1)(2)(3), Léger G(1)(2), 
DeMarco ML(11)(12), Weber F(10); ADCS VIVA-MIND Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, 
CA, USA.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, University of California San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA, USA.
(3)Shiley-Marcos Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Statistics, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(9)USF Health Byrd Alzheimer's Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.
(10)Vivoryon Therapeutics NV, Halle, Germany.
(11)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Providence Health Care, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(12)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Varoglutamstat is a first-in-class, small molecule being 
investigated as a treatment for early Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is an 
inhibitor of glutaminyl cyclase (QC), the enzyme that post-translationally 
modifies amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides into a toxic form of pyroglutamate Aβ (pGlu-Aβ) 
and iso-QC which post-translationally modifies cytokine monocyte chemoattractant 
protein-1 (CCL2) into neuroinflammatory pGlu-CCL2. Early phase clinical trials 
identified dose margins for safety and tolerability of varoglutamstat and 
biomarker data supporting its potential for clinical efficacy in early AD.
OBJECTIVE: Present the scientific rationale of varoglutamstat in the treatment 
of early AD and the methodology of the VIVA-MIND (NCT03919162) trial, which uses 
a seamless phase 2A-2B design. Our review also includes other pharmacologic 
approaches to pGlu-Aβ.
METHODS: Phase 2A of the VIVA-MIND trial will determine the highest dose of 
varoglutamstat that is safe and well tolerated with sufficient plasma exposure 
and a calculated target occupancy. Continuous safety evaluation using a 
pre-defined safety stopping boundary will help determine the highest tolerated 
dose that will carry forward into phase 2B. An interim futility analysis of 
cognitive function and electroencephalogram changes will be conducted to inform 
the decision of whether to proceed with phase 2B. Phase 2B will assess the 
efficacy and longer-term safety of the optimal selected phase 2A dose through 72 
weeks of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Varoglutamstat provides a unique dual mechanism of action 
addressing multiple pathogenic contributors to the disease cascade. VIVA-MIND 
provides a novel and efficient trial design to establish its optimal dosing, 
safety, tolerability, and efficacy in early AD.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231126
PMCID: PMC11494639
PMID: 39422941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: For this manuscript, Howard Feldman reports 
grant funding from Vivoryon Therapeutics (Probiodrug) for the VIVA-MIND trial as 
well as grant development support including travel prior to the trial. All funds 
were directed to UCSD. Relationships outside of this manuscript include: grant 
support from Annovis (QR Pharma), Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, AC Immune, and 
LuMind Foundation and consulting fees from LuMind, Genentech, Roche/Banner, Tau 
Consortium, Samus Therapeutics, Biosplice Therapeutics, Axon Neurosciences, Novo 
Nordisk Inc. (including travel), Janssen Research & Development LLC, and 
Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals with no personal funds received and all payments to 
UCSD. He also reports a philanthropic donation from the Epstein Family 
Alzheimer’s Disease Collaboration for therapeutic research in AD. Unrelated to 
the current manuscript, he receives royalty payments for patent “Detecting and 
Treating Dementia” Serial Number 12/3-2691 U.S. Patent No. PCT/US2007/07008. 
Washington, DC: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Douglas Galasko is a paid 
consultant for Eisai, Biogen, GE Healthcare and Artery Therapeutics. Gabriel 
Léger is a paid consultant for Eisai. Kerstin Kuehn-Wache is an employee of 
Vivoryon Therapeutics N.V. and holds shares in Vivoryon Therapeutics N.V. Oscar 
Lopez received consulting fees from Novo Nordisk, Lundbeck, and Eisai. Marwan 
Sabbagh reports ownership interest (stock or stock options) in NeuroTau, Athira, 
Lighthouse Pharmaceuticals, Alzheon, and Reservoir Neuroscience. He receives 
consulting fees from Roche-Genentech, Eisai, Lilly, Synaptogenix, NeuroTherapia, 
T3D, Signant Health, Novo Nordisk, Corium, Prothena, KeiferRx and serves on the 
CervoMed board of directors. Dr. Sabbagh is an Editorial Board Member of this 
journal but was not involved in the peer-review process of this article nor had 
access to any information regarding its peer-review. Amanda Smith receives grant 
support from Eli Lilly, Janssen, Biogen, Eisai, Cassava, and Vivoryon and serves 
as a site PI on the VIVA-MIND trial. R. Scott Turner receives consulting fees 
from Re:Cognition Health, Jupiter Neuroscience, and NeuroNascent. He reports 
grant support to Georgetown University from Biogen, Eisai, Lilly, 
Roche/Genentech, Janssen, Vaccinex, Vivoryon, and Cognition Therapeutics. Sylvia 
Schell-Mader is working as a contractor of Vivoryon Therapeutics N.V. Tanja 
Wassmann is an employee of Vivoryon Therapeutics N.V. Mari DeMarco reports 
consulting fees from Siemens and Eisai, and consulting and lecturing fees from 
Roche. Frank Weber is an employee of Vivoryon Therapeutics N.V. and owns stock 
equity in Vivoryon Therapeutics N.V. He is also an employee of Zambon Biotech SA 
Lugano. Frank Weber is the owner of LifeScience&Innovation GmbH and has received 
fees from Unicyte AG, Switzerland and from Santhera AG Basel CH. All other 
authors have no conflict of interest to report.


17. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S179-S192. doi: 10.3233/JAD-231062.

CMS121, a Novel Drug Candidate for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease and 
Age-Related Dementia.

Currais A(1), Raschke W(2), Maher P(1).

Author information:
(1)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(2)Virogenics, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.

Old age is the major risk factor for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, 
old age-related changes in brain physiology have generally not been taken into 
consideration in developing drug candidates for the treatment of AD. This is at 
least partly because the role of these age-related processes in the development 
and progression of AD are still not well understood. Nevertheless, we and others 
have described an association between the oxytosis/ferroptosis non-apoptotic 
regulated cell death pathway and aging. Based on this association, we 
incorporated protection against this pathway as part of a cell-based phenotypic 
screening approach to identify novel drug candidates for the treatment of AD. 
Using this approach, we identified the fisetin derivative CMS121 as a potent 
neuroprotective molecule that is able to maintain cognitive function in multiple 
pre-clinical models of AD. Furthermore, we identified a key target of CMS121 as 
fatty acid synthase, a protein which had not been previously considered in the 
context of AD. Herein, we provide a comprehensive description of the development 
of CMS121, its preclinical activities, and the results of the toxicology testing 
that led to its IND approval.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-231062
PMID: 39422940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S115-S128. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230994.

CT1812, a Small Molecule Sigma-2 Receptor Antagonist for Alzheimer's Disease 
Treatment: A Systematic Review of Available Clinical Data.

Thitilertdecha P(1), Brimson JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Siriraj Research Group in Immunobiology and Therapeutic Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Research Unit for Innovation and International Affairs, Faculty of Allied 
Health Sciences, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is of growing concern worldwide as the 
demographic changes to a more aged population. Amyloid-β (Aβ deposition is 
thought to be a key target for treating AD. However, Aβ antibodies have had 
mixed results, and there is concern over their safety. Studies have shown that 
the sigma-2 receptor (σ-2R)/TMEM97 is a binding site for Aβ oligomers. 
Therefore, targeting the receptor may be beneficial in displacing Aβ oligomers 
from the brain. CT1812 is a σ-2R/TMEM97 antagonist that is effective in 
preclinical studies of AD and has been entered into clinical trials.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to systematically review the safety 
and efficacy of CT1812 for the treatment of AD.
METHODS: Between June and August 2023, we searched the primary literature 
(PubMed, Scopus, Google Scholar, etc.) and clinical trials databases 
(http://www.clinicaltrails.gov). The extracted data is evaluated within this 
manuscript.
RESULTS: CT1812 is relatively safe, with only mild adverse events reported at 
doses up to 840 mg. CT1812 can displace Aβ in the clinical studies, in line with 
the preclinical data. Studies have investigated brain connectivity and function 
in response to CT1812. However, the cognitive data is still lacking, with only 
one study including cognitive data as a secondary outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: CT1812 safely works to displace Aβ however, whether this is enough 
to prevent/slow the cognitive decline seen in AD remains to be seen. Longer 
clinical trials are needed to assess the efficacy of CT1812; several trials of 
this nature are currently ongoing.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230994
PMID: 39422939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S395-S416. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230897.

Stem Cell Interventions in Neurology: From Bench to Bedside.

Pappolla MA(1), Wu P(2), Fang X(1), Poeggeler B(3), Sambamurti K(4), Wisniewski 
T(5), Perry G(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, 
USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience & Cell Biology, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.
(3)Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach-Institute for Zoology and Anthropology, Faculty 
of Biology and Psychology, Georg August University Göttingen, Gütersloh, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston, SC, USA.
(5)Departments of Neurology, Pathology, and Psychiatry, New York University 
Alzheimer's Research Center, New York University Grossman School of Medicine, 
New York, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Developmental and Regenerative Biology, 
University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Stem cell therapies are progressively redefining the treatment landscape for a 
spectrum of neurological and age-related disorders. This review discusses the 
molecular and functional attributes of stem cells, emphasizing the roles of 
neural stem cells and mesenchymal stem cells in the context of neurological 
diseases such as stroke, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 
traumatic brain injury, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. The review 
also explores the potential of stem cells in addressing the aging process. The 
paper analyzes stem cells' intrinsic properties of self-renewal, 
differentiation, and paracrine effects, alongside the importance of 
laboratory-modified stem cells like induced pluripotent stem cells and 
transgenic stem cells. Insights into disease-specific stem cell treatments are 
offered, reviewing both successes and challenges in the field. This includes the 
translational difficulties from rodent studies to human trials. The review 
concludes by acknowledging the uncharted territories that warrant further 
investigation, emphasizing the potential roles of stem cell-derived exosomes and 
indole-related molecules, and aiming at providing a basic understanding of stem 
cell therapies.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230897
PMID: 39422938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S417-S431. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230783.

Advances and Challenges in Gene Therapy for Alzheimer's Disease.

Morroni F(1), Caccamo A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Alma Mater Studiorum, University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Chemical, Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by cognitive decline, memory loss, and behavioral impairments. 
Despite extensive research efforts, effective treatment options for AD remain 
limited. Recently, gene therapy has emerged as a promising avenue for targeted 
intervention in the pathogenesis of AD. This review will provide an overview of 
clinical and preclinical studies where gene therapy techniques have been 
utilized in the context of AD, highlighting their potential as novel therapeutic 
strategies. While challenges remain, ongoing research and technological 
advancement continue to enhance the potential of gene therapy as a targeted and 
personalized therapeutic approach for AD.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230783
PMID: 39422937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S193-S204. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230760.

Melatonin in Alzheimer's Disease: Literature Review and Therapeutic Trials.

Steinbach MJ(1)(2), Denburg NL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Iowa, Iowa 
City, IA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Division of Cognitive Neuroscience, University of 
Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA, USA.

There are currently no effective treatments to prevent, halt, or reverse 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common cause of dementia in older adults. 
Melatonin, a relatively harmless over-the-counter supplement, may offer some 
benefits to patients with AD. Melatonin is known for its sleep-enhancing 
properties, but research shows that it may provide other advantages as well, 
such as antioxidant and anti-amyloidogenic properties. Clinical trials for 
melatonin use in AD have mixed results but, overall, show modest benefits. 
However, it is difficult to interpret clinical research in this area as there is 
little standardization to guide the administration and study of melatonin. This 
review covers basic biology and clinical research on melatonin in AD focusing on 
prominent hypotheses of pathophysiology of neurodegeneration and cognitive 
decline in AD (i.e., amyloid and tau hypotheses, antioxidant and 
anti-inflammation, insulin resistance and glucose homeostasis, the cholinergic 
hypothesis, sleep regulation, and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and 
cortisol). This is followed by a discussion on pending clinical trials, 
considerations for future research protocols, and open questions in the field.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230760
PMID: 39422936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S205-S215. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230635.

A Randomized-Controlled Trial Targeting Cognition in Early Alzheimer's Disease 
by Improving Sleep with Trazodone (REST).

Eyob E(1), Shaw JS(1), Bakker A(1), Munro C(1), Spira A(2), Wu M(3), Rabinowitz 
JA(1), Peters M(1), Wanigatunga S(2), Zipunnikov V(2), Thompson R(2), 
Burhanullah MH(1), Leoutsakos JM(1), Rosenberg P(1), Greenberg B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.

 Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity among 
aging populations worldwide. Despite arduous research efforts, treatment options 
for this devastating neurodegenerative disease are limited. Sleep disturbances, 
through their link to changes in neural excitability and impaired clearance of 
interstitial abnormal protein aggregates, are a key risk factor for the 
development of AD. Research also suggests that the neuroprotective effects of 
sleep are particularly active during slow wave sleep. Given the strong link 
between sleep disturbance and AD, targeting sleep in the prodromal stages of AD, 
such as in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), represents a promising avenue for 
slowing the onset of AD-related cognitive decline. In efforts to improve sleep 
in older individuals, several pharmacologic approaches have been employed, but 
many pose safety risks, concern for worsening cognitive function, and fail to 
effectively target slow wave sleep. Trazodone, a safe and widely used drug in 
the older adult population, has shown promise in inducing slow wave sleep in 
older adults, but requires more rigorous research to understand its effects on 
sleep and cognition in the prodromal stages of AD. In this review, we present 
the rationale and study design for our randomized, double-bind, 
placebo-controlled, crossover trial (NCT05282550) investigating the effects of 
trazodone on sleep and cognition in 100 older adults with amnestic MCI and sleep 
complaints.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230635
PMCID: PMC12279255
PMID: 39422935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: P. Rosenberg received support in the form of 
grant funding from the National Institute of Aging Alzheimer’s Association, 
Lilly, Functional Neuromodulation, Vaccinex, the Alzheimer’s Disease Cooperative 
Study (ADCS), Alzheimer’s Disease Trials Research Institute (ATRI), and the 
Alzheimer’s Clinical Trials Consortium (ACTC); he has served as a consultant to 
GLG, Leerink, Otsuka, Avanir, ITI, IQVIA, Food and Drug Administration, Cerevel, 
Bioxcel, Sunovion, and Acadia. B. A. Spira received payment for serving as a 
consultant for Merck and received honoraria from Springer Nature Switzerland AG 
for guest editing special issues of Current Sleep Medicine Reports.


23. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S23-S39. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230603.

Immunotherapy in Alzheimer's Disease: Current Status and Future Directions.

Vashisth K(1), Sharma S(2), Ghosh S(1)(3), Babu MA(4), Ghosh S(1), Iqbal D(5), 
Kamal M(6), Almutary AG(7), Jha SK(8), Ojha S(9), Bhaskar R(10)(11), Jha NK(12), 
Sinha JK(1).

Author information:
(1)GloNeuro, Noida, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, R.K.S.D. College of Pharmacy, Kaithal, Haryana, 
India.
(3)ICMR - National Institute of Nutrition, Tarnaka, Hyderabad, India.
(4)Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA University, Mathura, India.
(5)Department of Health Information Management, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Buraydah Private Colleges, Buraydah, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam 
Bin Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj, Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Health Sciences, Abu Dhabi 
University, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(8)Department of Zoology, Kalindi College, University of Delhi, New Delhi, 
India.
(9)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(10)School of Chemical Engineering, Yeungnam University, Gyeonsang, Korea.
(11)Research Institute of Cell Culture, Yeungnam University, Gyeongsan, Korea.
(12)Centre for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, Chennai, 
India.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by 
memory loss, cognitive decline, and behavioral changes. Immunotherapy aims to 
harness the immune system to target the underlying pathology of AD and has shown 
promise as a disease-modifying treatment for AD. By focusing on the underlying 
disease pathogenesis and encouraging the removal of abnormal protein aggregates 
in the brain, immunotherapy shows promise as a potential treatment for AD. The 
development of immunotherapy for AD began with early attempts to use antibodies 
to target beta-amyloid. The amyloid hypothesis which suggests that the 
accumulation of beta-amyloid in the brain triggers the pathological cascade that 
leads to AD has been a driving force behind the development of immunotherapy for 
AD. However, recent clinical trials of monoclonal antibodies targeting amyloid-β 
have shown mixed results, highlighting the need for further research into 
alternative immunotherapy approaches. Additionally, the safety and efficacy of 
immunotherapy for AD remain an area of active investigation. Some 
immunotherapeutic approaches have shown promise, while others have been 
associated with significant side effects, including inflammation of the brain. 
Sleep has a significant impact on various physiological processes, including the 
immune system, and has been linked to the pathogenesis of AD. Thus, improving 
sleep quality and duration may benefit the immune system and potentially enhance 
the effectiveness of immunotherapeutic approaches for AD. In this review, we 
discussed the promises of immunotherapy as a disease-modifying treatment for AD 
as well as possible methods to improve the efficacy and safety of immunotherapy 
to achieve better therapeutic outcomes.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230603
PMID: 39422934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;101(s1):S545-S565. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230535.

Brain Stimulation in Alzheimer's Disease Trials.

Benussi A(1)(2), Borroni B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.
(2)Neurology Unit, Department of Neurological and Vision Sciences, ASST Spedali 
Civili di Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) continues to lack definitive curative therapies, 
necessitating an urgent exploration of innovative approaches. This review 
provides a comprehensive analysis of recent clinical trials focusing on invasive 
and non-invasive brain stimulation techniques as potential interventions for AD. 
Deep brain stimulation (DBS), repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation 
(rTMS), transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), and transcranial 
alternating current stimulation (tACS) are evaluated for their therapeutic 
efficacy, safety, and applicability. DBS, though invasive, has shown promising 
results in mitigating cognitive decline, but concerns over surgical risks and 
long-term effects persist. On the other hand, non-invasive methods like rTMS, 
tDCS, and tACS have demonstrated potential in enhancing cognitive performance 
and delaying disease progression, with minimal side effects, but with varied 
consistency. The evidence hints towards an individualized, patient-centric 
approach to brain stimulation, considering factors such as disease stage, 
genetic traits, and stimulation parameters. The review also highlights emerging 
technologies and potential future directions, emphasizing the need for larger, 
multi-center trials to confirm preliminary findings and establish robust 
clinical guidelines. In conclusion, while brain stimulation techniques present a 
promising avenue in AD therapy, further research is imperative for more 
comprehensive understanding and successful clinical implementation. Through this 
review, we aim to catalyze the scientific discourse and stimulate further 
investigation into these novel interventions for AD.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230535
PMID: 39422933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Sci China Life Sci. 2025 Feb;68(2):575-577. doi: 10.1007/s11427-024-2733-7.
Epub  2024 Oct 12.

Timing of biomarker changes preceding Alzheimer's disease: for diagnosis, 
treatment or prevention?

Quan M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center for Neurological Disorders and Department of Neurology, 
Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100053, China. 
quanmeina@xwhosp.org.
(2)National Medical Center for Neurological Diseases and National Clinical 
Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Beijing, 100053, China. 
quanmeina@xwhosp.org.
(3)Center of Alzheimer's Disease, Beijing Institute of Brain Disorders, 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Disorders, Beijing, 100053, China. 
quanmeina@xwhosp.org.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-024-2733-7
PMID: 39422811

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance and ethics. The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


26. Mol Biol Rep. 2024 Oct 18;51(1):1065. doi: 10.1007/s11033-024-09997-2.

Erythropoietin and glial cells in central and peripheral nervous systems.

Haratizadeh S(1), Nemati M(2), Basiri M(3), Nozari M(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Afzalipour School of Medicine, 
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(3)Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Afzalipour School of Medicine, 
Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran. masoumeh.nozari@gmail.com.
(5)Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran. masoumeh.nozari@gmail.com.

Erythropoietin (EPO) is the main hematopoietic growth factor prescribed to 
overcome anemia. It is also a neuroprotective agent. EPO binds to the 
erythropoietin receptor (EPOR), expressed on neurons and glial cells in the 
central nervous system (CNS), and exerts its neuroprotective potencies through 
the EPO-EPOR complex. The mechanism of the signal transduction pathways of EPO 
on glial cells is defined. EPO-EPOR complex can affect neurological disorders, 
such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ischemia, retinal injury, 
stroke, hypoxia, trauma, and demyelinating diseases, through acting downstream 
signaling pathways. This review focuses on the roles of EPO in different types 
of glial cells (astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and Schwann cells) and 
their relationships with signaling pathways. Information on the 
non-erythropoietic action of EPO and related signaling systems in connection 
with glial cells could enhance EPO treatment to restore different CNS disorders 
and propose new perspectives on the neuroprotective potential of EPO.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-024-09997-2
PMID: 39422776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2024 Sep 6;7(10):2924-2935. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00229. eCollection 2024 Oct 11.

Challenges and Opportunities for Consideration of Efavirenz Drug Repurposing for 
Alzheimer's Disease Therapeutics.

Boyarko B(1)(2), Podvin S(1), Greenberg B(3), Arnold S(4), Juanes AM(5), van der 
Kant R(5), Goldstein L(6), Momper JD(1), Bang A(7), Silverman J(2)(8), Feldman 
HH(2)(8), Hook V(1)(2)(8).

Author information:
(1)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, United States.
(2)Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, School of Medicine, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21287, United States.
(4)Alzheimer's Clinical and Translational Research Unit, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, United States.
(5)Department of Functional Genomics, Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive 
Research, Amsterdam Neuroscience, VU University Amsterdam de Boelelaan, 
Amsterdam 1081 HV, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, United States.
(7)Conrad Prebys Center for Chemical Genomics, Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical 
Discovery Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, United States.
(8)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California 92093, United States.

Therapeutic research and development for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been an 
area of intense research to alleviate memory loss and neurodegeneration. There 
is growing interest in drug repositioning and repurposing strategies for 
FDA-approved medications as potential candidates that may further advance AD 
therapeutics. The FDA drug efavirenz has been investigated as a candidate drug 
for repurposing as an AD medication. The proposed mechanism of action of 
efavirenz (at low doses) is the activation of the neuron-specific enzyme CYP46A1 
that converts excess brain cholesterol into 24-hydroxycholesterol (24-HC) that 
is exported to the periphery. Efavirenz at a low dose was found to improve 
memory deficit in the 5XFAD model of AD that was accompanied by elevated 24-HC 
and reduction in Aβ; furthermore, efavirenz reduced pTau and excess cholesterol 
levels in human iPSC-derived Alzheimer's neurons. The low dose of efavirenz used 
in the AD mouse model to increase 24-HC contrasts with the use of more than 
100-fold higher doses of efavirenz for clinical treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through inhibition of reverse transcriptase. Low 
doses of efavirenz may avoid neurotoxic adverse effects that occur at high 
efavirenz doses used for HIV treatment. This review evaluates the drug 
properties of efavirenz with respect to its preclinical data on regulating 
memory deficit, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, metabolites, and genetic 
variabilities in drug metabolism as well as its potential adverse effects. These 
analyses discuss the challenges and questions that should be addressed in future 
studies to consider the opportunity for low dose efavirenz as a candidate for AD 
drug development.

© 2024 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00229
PMCID: PMC11480897
PMID: 39421657

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


28. Front Neurol. 2024 Sep 30;15:1443132. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1443132. 
eCollection 2024.

The use of plasma exchange with albumin replacement in the management of 
Alzheimer's disease: a scoping review.

Cantero-Fortiz Y(#)(1)(2), Boada M(#)(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona, Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Front Neurol. 2024 Oct 29;15:1509655. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1509655.

INTRODUCTION: AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder causing significant 
cognitive decline and impaired daily functioning. Current treatments offer only 
modest relief, and many amyloid-targeting therapies have failed, prompting 
exploration of alternative approaches such as PE with albumin replacement.
OBJECTIVES: This scoping review systematically maps the literature on PE with 
albumin replacement in AD management, focusing on outcomes, methodologies, and 
reported benefits and risks.
METHODS: A comprehensive search in PubMed, supplemented by reference scanning 
and hand-searching, identified studies involving PE with albumin replacement in 
AD patients. Data charting and critical appraisal were conducted using 
standardized tools.
RESULTS: Seven primary studies from the AMBAR (Alzheimer Management by Albumin 
Replacement) trial met the inclusion criteria, consistently reporting 
improvements in cognitive function, positive neuroimaging results, and favorable 
neuropsychiatric outcomes. For instance, one study found a significant slowing 
of cognitive decline (p < 0.05) among patients receiving PE with albumin 
replacement. Another study showed better preservation of hippocampal volume and 
improved brain perfusion metrics in the treatment group (p < 0.05). The 
intervention was generally well-tolerated with manageable side effects.
CONCLUSION: PE with albumin replacement is a promising therapeutic approach for 
AD, warranting further investigation to confirm its efficacy and safety across 
broader settings.
SCOPING REVIEW REGISTRATION: 
https://osf.io/v6dez/?view_only=1cd9637e7e0347d39713bf19aac0dfe8.

Copyright © 2024 Cantero-Fortiz and Boada.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2024.1443132
PMCID: PMC11484623
PMID: 39421573

Conflict of interest statement: MB reports receiving consulting fees from 
Grifols, Araclon Biotech, Roche, Biogen, Lilly, Merck, Zambon, and Novo-Nordisk; 
holding advisory board memberships with Grifols, Roche, Lilly, Araclon Biotech, 
Merck, Zambon, Biogen, Novo-Nordisk, Bioiberica, Eisai, Servier, and Schwabe 
Pharma; and receiving lecture fees from Roche, Biogen, Grifols, Nutricia, 
Araclon Biotech, Servier, and Novo-Nordisk. The remaining author declares that 
the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


29. J Inflamm Res. 2024 Oct 13;17:7235-7259. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S483412.
eCollection  2024.

Prevention and Treatment Strategies for Alzheimer's Disease: Focusing on 
Microglia and Astrocytes in Neuroinflammation.

Zhang S(#)(1), Gao Z(#)(2), Feng L(1)(3), Li M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Changchun 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, Jilin Province, 130021, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics, Fushun Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Fushun, 
Liaoning Province, 113008, People's Republic of China.
(3)Shandong Key Laboratory of TCM Multi-Targets Intervention and Disease 
Control, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Shandong First Medical University, 
Taian, Shandong Province, 271000, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by 
its insidious onset and progressive development, making it the most common form 
of dementia. Despite its prevalence, the exact causes and mechanisms responsible 
for AD remain unclear. Recent studies have highlighted that inflammation in the 
central nervous system (CNS) plays a crucial role in both the initiation and 
progression of AD. Neuroinflammation, an immune response within the CNS 
triggered by glial cells in response to various stimuli, such as nerve injury, 
infection, toxins, or autoimmune reactions, has emerged as a significant factor 
alongside amyloid deposition and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) commonly 
associated with AD. This article aims to provide an overview of the most recent 
research regarding the involvement of neuroinflammation in AD, with a particular 
focus on elucidating the specific mechanisms involving microglia and astrocytes. 
By exploring these intricate processes, a new theoretical framework can be 
established to further probe the impact of neuroinflammation on the development 
and progression of AD. Through a deeper understanding of these underlying 
mechanisms, potential targets for therapeutic interventions and novel treatment 
strategies can be identified in the ongoing battle against AD.

© 2024 Zhang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S483412
PMCID: PMC11484773
PMID: 39421566

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest.


30. Front Neurosci. 2024 Oct 3;18:1454369. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1454369. 
eCollection 2024.

Cathepsins and neurological diseases: a Mendelian randomization study.

Sun H(#)(1), Tang Q(#)(1), Yan X(2), Xie W(1), Xu Y(1), Zhang W(1).

Author information:
(1)Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, China.
(2)The Third Affiliated Hospital of Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, 
Changchun, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The causal relationship between cathepsins and neurological diseases 
remains uncertain. To address this, we utilized a two-sample Mendelian 
randomization (MR) approach to assess the potential causal effect of cathepsins 
on the development of neurological diseases.
METHODS: This study conducted a two-sample two-way MR study using pooled data 
from published genome-wide association studies to evaluate the relationship 
between 10 cathepsins (B, D, E, F, G, H, L2, O, S, and Z) and 7 neurological 
diseases, which included ischemic stroke, cerebral hemorrhage, Alzheimer's 
disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 
and epilepsy. The analysis employed various methods such as inverse variance 
weighting (IVW), weighted median, MR Egger regression, MR pleiotropy residual 
sum and outlier, Cochran Q statistic, and leave-one-out analysis.
RESULTS: We found a causal relationship between cathepsins and neurological 
diseases, including Cathepsin B and Parkinson's disease (IVW odds ratio (OR): 
0.89, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.83, 0.95, p = 0.001); Cathepsin D and 
Parkinson's disease (OR: 0.80, 95%CI: 0.68, 0.95, p = 0.012); Cathepsin E and 
ischemic stroke (OR: 1.05, 95%CI: 1.01, 1.09, p = 0.015); Cathepsin O and 
ischemic stroke (OR: 1.05, 95%CI: 1.01, 1.10, p = 0.021). Reverse MR analyses 
revealed that multiple sclerosis and Cathepsin E (OR: 1.05, 95%CI: 1.01, 1.10, 
p = 0.030). There is currently no significant relationship has been found 
between other cathepsins and neurological diseases.
CONCLUSION: Our study reveals a causal relationship between Cathepsins B, D, E, 
and O and neurological diseases, offering valuable insights for research aimed 
at improving the diagnosis and treatment of such conditions.

Copyright © 2024 Sun, Tang, Yan, Xie, Xu and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1454369
PMCID: PMC11484041
PMID: 39420987

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


31. J Appl Gerontol. 2025 Jun;44(6):938-948. doi: 10.1177/07334648241293524. Epub
 2024 Oct 17.

Lessons from a Pilot Study of a Culturally Tailored Financial Well-Being 
Intervention Among Latino Family Caregivers.

Meyer K(1), Mage SM(2), Gonzalez A(2), Zauszniewski JA(1), Rhodes S(3), 
Perales-Puchalt J(4), Wilber K(2), Song L(3), Puga F(5), Benton D(2).

Author information:
(1)Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH, USA.
(2)Leonard David School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)School of Nursing, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, 
San Antonio, TX, USA.
(4)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Fairway, KS, USA.
(5)School of Nursing, University of Birmingham Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA.

Financial strain disproportionally affects the growing population of Latino 
family caregivers. This pilot study aimed to test the feasibility of a 
culturally tailored psychoeducational intervention for Latino caregivers 
designed to reduce financial strain by improving resourcefulness and 
self-efficacy. Feasibility was assessed according to participant demands, 
ability to deliver the intervention, and preliminary efficacy. From May 2022 to 
September 2023, Confidently Navigating Financial Decisions and Enhancing 
Financial Wellbeing in Dementia Caregiving (CONFIDENCE) was administered to 69 
caregivers over 11 cohorts in a community setting. Caregivers attended an 
average of 3.13 (SD = 0.17) of five sessions. Eligible caregivers were given the 
option to participate in a single-arm pre- and post-test study. Results from N = 
20 caregivers indicated reduced levels of financial strain 2 months 
post-intervention (p-value = .013). Findings also showed improvements 
resourcefulness and self-efficacy. Although CONFIDENCE appears feasible to 
deliver and may affect desired outcomes, future studies should reduce 
intervention demands to improve attendance.Trial RegistrationThis trial is 
registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT05292248).

DOI: 10.1177/07334648241293524
PMCID: PMC12003696
PMID: 39420566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


32. BMC Neurol. 2024 Oct 17;24(1):397. doi: 10.1186/s12883-024-03904-9.

Investigating the association between the GAP-43 concentration with diffusion 
tensor imaging indices in Alzheimer's dementia continuum.

Ariaei A(1)(2), Ghorbani A(3), Habibzadeh E(4), Moghaddam N(5), Chegeni Nezhad 
N(6), Abdoli A(7), Mazinanian S(8), Sadeghi M(9), Mayeli M(9).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Science, Hemmat Highway, Next 
to Milad Tower, Tehran, 1449614535, Iran. arminaraee@gmail.com.
(2)Advanced Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology Research Center (ADIR), 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. arminaraee@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biology, Islamic Azad University East Tehran Branch, Tehran, 
Iran.
(4)School of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical Science, Tabriz, Iran.
(5)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Islamic Azad University Shahrood Branch, 
Shahrood, Iran.
(6)Department of Advanced Sciences and Technology, Islamic Azad University 
Tehran Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Radiobiology, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Sherbrooke (CHUS), 
Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Canada.
(8)Department of Psychology, Islamic Azad University Semnan Branch, Semnan, 
Iran.
(9)School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Synaptic degeneration, axonal injury, and white matter 
disintegration are among the pathological events in Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
for which growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) and diffusion tensor imaging 
(DTI) could be an indicator. In this study, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) GAP-43 
clinical trajectories and their association with progression and AD hallmarks 
with white matter microstructural changes were evaluated.
METHODS: A total number of 133 participants were enrolled in GAP-43 and DTI 
values were compared between groups, both cross-sectionally and longitudinally 
with two and four-year follow-ups. Subsequently, the correlation between GAP-43 
levels in the CSF and DTI values was investigated using Spearman's correlation.
RESULTS: The CSF level of GAP-43 is negatively correlated with the mean 
diffusivity measures in Fornix (Cres)/Stria terminals in early and late MCI 
(rs=-0.478 p = 0.021 and rs=-0.425 p = 0.038). Additionally, the CSF level of 
GAP-43 is negatively correlated with fractional anisotropy in the cingulum in 
late MCI (rs=-0.437 p = 0.033). Moreover, the axial diffusivity in superior 
corona radiate (rs=-0.562 p = 0.005 and rs=-0.484 p = 0.036) and radial 
diffusivity in superior fronto-occipital fasciculus was negatively correlated 
with GAP-43 level in the early and mid-MCI participants (rs=-0.520 p = 0.011 and 
rs=-0.498 p = 0.030).
CONCLUSIONS: Presynaptic marker GAP-43 in combination with DTI can be used as a 
novel biomarker to identify microstructural synaptic degeneration in the early 
MCI. In addition, it can be used as a biomarker for tracking the progression of 
AD and monitoring treatment efficacy.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-024-03904-9
PMCID: PMC11484424
PMID: 39420261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


33. NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2024 Oct 17;10(1):188. doi: 10.1038/s41531-024-00778-z.

Parkinson's families project: a UK-wide study of early onset and familial 
Parkinson's disease.

Towns C(1), Fang ZH(2), Tan MMX(3), Jasaityte S(1), Schmaderer TM(1), Stafford 
EJ(1), Pollard M(1), Tilney R(1), Hodgson M(1)(4), Wu L(1), Labrum R(5), Hehir 
J(5), Polke J(5), Lange LM(6)(7), Schapira AHV(1)(8), Bhatia KP(1)(4); 
Parkinson’s Families Project (PFP) Study Group; Global Parkinson’s Genetics 
Program (GP2); Singleton AB(9)(10), Blauwendraat C(9)(10), Klein C(6), Houlden 
H(11), Wood NW(1)(8), Jarman PR(12), Morris HR(13)(14)(15), Real R(16)(17)(18).

Collaborators: Morris HR, Real R, Jarman PR, Wood NW, Jasaityte S, Hodgson M, 
Towns C, Pollard M, Wakeman E, Saifee T, Arianayagam S, Shaik S, Molloy S, 
Gregory R, Wickremaratchi M, Buccoliero R, Bandmann O, Paviour D, Padiachy D, 
Misbahuddin A, Cosgrove J, Guptha S, Chaudhuri R, Tai Y, Asad S, Funaki A, Kunc 
M, Brierley C, Sheridan R, Truscott R, Dean S, Vickers C, Sophia R, Jones S, 
Capps E, Archibald N, Wiblin L, Slaght SJ, Jones E, Barnes C, D'Costa D, Mann C, 
Nath U, Schrag A, Williams S, Webster G, Sveinbjornsdottir S, Strens L, Hand A, 
Walker R, Crouch R, Raw J, Tuck S, Amar K, Wales E, Gentilini I, Nacorda A, 
Hartley L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square Institute 
of Neurology, London, UK.
(2)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(4)UCL Movement Disorders Centre, University College London, London, UK.
(5)Neurogenetics Laboratory, National Hospital for Neurology & Neurosurgery, 
Queen Square, London, UK.
(6)Institute of Neurogenetics, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(7)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Lübeck, 
Germany.
(8)Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, 
Chevy Chase, MD, USA.
(9)Center for Alzheimer's and Related Dementias (CARD), National Institute on 
Aging and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(10)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(11)Department of Neuromuscular Diseases, UCL Queen Square Institute of 
Neurology, London, UK.
(12)National Hospital for Neurology & Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London, UK.
(13)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square 
Institute of Neurology, London, UK. h.morris@ucl.ac.uk.
(14)UCL Movement Disorders Centre, University College London, London, UK. 
h.morris@ucl.ac.uk.
(15)Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, 
Chevy Chase, MD, USA. h.morris@ucl.ac.uk.
(16)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, UCL Queen Square 
Institute of Neurology, London, UK. r.real@ucl.ac.uk.
(17)UCL Movement Disorders Centre, University College London, London, UK. 
r.real@ucl.ac.uk.
(18)Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, 
Chevy Chase, MD, USA. r.real@ucl.ac.uk.

The Parkinson's Families Project is a UK-wide study aimed at identifying genetic 
variation associated with familial and early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). We 
recruited individuals with a clinical diagnosis of PD and age at motor symptom 
onset ≤45 years and/or a family history of PD in up to third-degree relatives. 
Where possible, we also recruited affected and unaffected relatives. We analysed 
DNA samples with a combination of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array 
genotyping, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), and 
whole-genome sequencing (WGS). We investigated the association between 
identified pathogenic mutations and demographic and clinical factors such as age 
at motor symptom onset, family history, motor symptoms (MDS-UPDRS) and cognitive 
performance (MoCA). We performed baseline genetic analysis in 718 families, of 
which 205 had sporadic early-onset PD (sEOPD), 113 had familial early-onset PD 
(fEOPD), and 400 had late-onset familial PD (fLOPD). 69 (9.6%) of these families 
carried pathogenic variants in known monogenic PD-related genes. The rate of a 
molecular diagnosis increased to 28.1% in PD with motor onset ≤35 years. We 
identified pathogenic variants in LRRK2 in 4.2% of families, and biallelic 
pathogenic variants in PRKN in 3.6% of families. We also identified two families 
with SNCA duplications and three families with a pathogenic repeat expansion in 
ATXN2, as well as single families with pathogenic variants in VCP, PINK1, 
PNPLA6, PLA2G6, SPG7, GCH1, and RAB32. An additional 73 (10.2%) families were 
carriers of at least one pathogenic or risk GBA1 variant. Most early-onset and 
familial PD cases do not have a known genetic cause, indicating that there are 
likely to be further monogenic causes for PD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41531-024-00778-z
PMCID: PMC11487259
PMID: 39420034

Conflict of interest statement: H.R.M. reports paid consultancy from Biogen, 
Biohaven, Lundbeck and lecture fees/honoraria from the Wellcome Trust and 
Movement Disorders Society; H.R.M. is also a co-applicant on a patent 
application related to C9ORF72 - Method for diagnosing a neurodegenerative 
disease (PCT/GB2012/052140). A.B.S. has received royalty payments related to a 
diagnostic for stroke. A.B.S. is an editor for npj Parkinson’s Disease. A.B.S. 
was not involved in the journal’s review of, or decisions related to, this 
manuscript. C.K. serves as a medical advisor to Centogene, Retromer 
Therapeutics, and Takeda, and she received Speakers’ honoraria from Desitin and 
Bial. All other authors declare no financial or non-financial competing 
interests.


34. Sleep Health. 2025 Feb;11(1):80-90. doi: 10.1016/j.sleh.2024.08.012. Epub
2024  Oct 16.

Mediating role of obstructive sleep apnea in altering slow-wave activity and 
elevating Alzheimer's disease risk: Pilot study from a northern Taiwan cohort.

Tsai CY(1), Su CL(2), Huang HT(3), Lin HW(4), Lin JW(5), Hei NC(6), Cheng WH(6), 
Chen YL(7), Majumdar A(8), Kang JH(9), Lee KY(10), Chen Z(8), Lin YC(11), Wu 
CJ(12), Kuan YC(13), Lin YT(14), Hsu CR(15), Lee HC(16), Liu WT(17).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Engineering, College of Biomedical Engineering, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Respiratory Therapy, College of 
Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Research Center of 
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Sleep Center, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, 
Taiwan; Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)School of Respiratory Therapy, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei 
City, Taiwan; Research Center of Biomedical Devices, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Physics and Bioengineering, University College London, 
United Kingdom.
(4)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)School of Respiratory Therapy, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)Institute of Biomedical Informatics of National Yang Ming Chiao Tung 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(9)School of Respiratory Therapy, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Research Center of Artificial Intelligence in 
Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of 
Nanomedicine and Medical Engineering, College of Biomedical Engineering, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taiwan.
(10)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan; Department of 
Civil and Environmental Engineering, Imperial College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(11)Sleep Center, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, 
Taiwan; Department of Otolaryngology, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho 
Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(12)Department of Otolaryngology, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, 
New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(13)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Neurology, Taipei Medical 
University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(14)Department of Medical Imaging and Intervention, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital 
at Linkou, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(15)Department of Neurology, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New 
Taipei City, Taiwan.
(16)Graduate Institute of Humanities in Medicine, College of Humanities & Social 
Sciences, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Psychiatry, 
Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
ellalee@tmu.edu.tw.
(17)School of Respiratory Therapy, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Research Center of Artificial Intelligence in 
Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Sleep Center, Taipei 
Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan; Division of 
Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
b7801077@tmu.edu.tw.

OBJECTIVES: Obstructive sleep apnea is associated with alterations in slow-wave 
activity during sleep, potentially increasing the risk of Alzheimer's disease. 
This study investigated the associations between obstructive sleep apnea 
manifestations such as respiratory events, hypoxia, arousal, slow-wave patterns, 
and neurochemical biomarker levels.
METHODS: Individuals with suspected obstructive sleep apnea underwent 
polysomnography. Sleep disorder indices, oxygen metrics, and slow-wave activity 
data were obtained from the polysomnography, and blood samples were taken the 
following morning to determine the plasma levels of total tau (T-Tau) and 
amyloid beta-peptide 42 (Aβ42) by using an ultrasensitive immunomagnetic 
reduction assay. Subsequently, the participants were categorized into groups 
with low and high Alzheimer's disease risk on the basis of their computed 
product Aβ42 × T-Tau. Intergroup differences and the associations and mediation 
effects between sleep-related parameters and neurochemical biomarkers were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Forty-two participants were enrolled, with 21 assigned to each of the 
low- and high-risk groups. High-risk individuals had a higher apnea-hypopnea 
index, oxygen desaturation index (≥3%, ODI-3%), fraction of total sleep time 
with oxygen desaturation (SpO2-90% TST), and arousal index and greater 
peak-to-peak amplitude and slope in slow-wave activity, with a correspondingly 
shorter duration, than did low-risk individuals. Furthermore, indices such as 
the apnea-hypopnea index, ODI-3% and SpO2-90% TST were found to indirectly 
affect slow-wave activity, thereby raising the Aβ42 × T-Tau level.
CONCLUSIONS: Obstructive sleep apnea manifestations, such as respiratory events 
and hypoxia, may influence slow-wave sleep activity (functioning as 
intermediaries) and may be linked to elevated neurochemical biomarker levels. 
However, a longitudinal study is necessary to determine causal relationships 
among these factors.
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: This research aims to bridge gaps in understanding 
how obstructive sleep apnea is associated with an elevated risk of Alzheimer's 
disease, providing valuable knowledge for sleep and cognitive health.

Copyright © 2025 National Sleep Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleh.2024.08.012
PMID: 39419711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicts of interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


35. Exp Neurol. 2025 Jan;383:115002. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115002. Epub
2024  Oct 16.

Early intervention using long-term rhythmic pulsed magnetic stimulation 
alleviates cognitive decline in a 5xFAD mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.

Wang X(1), Wang Q(2), Wang X(1), Zhao H(2), Zhao C(1), Jiao Y(1), Shi H(1), Chen 
C(2), Chen H(2), Wang P(3), Song T(4).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioelectromagnetism, Institute of Electrical 
Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China; University of 
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioelectromagnetism, Institute of Electrical 
Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioelectromagnetism, Institute of Electrical 
Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China. Electronic 
address: wangpp@mail.iee.ac.cn.
(4)Beijing Key Laboratory of Bioelectromagnetism, Institute of Electrical 
Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China; University of 
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China. Electronic address: 
songtao@mail.iee.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia, but 
no effective therapeutic strategy is available to date. Rhythmic magnetic 
stimulation is an attractive means of neuron modulation that could be beneficial 
for restoring learning and memory abilities.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of a compound pulsed rhythmic magnetic field 
(cPMF) on cognition during AD progression and to explore the appropriate cPMF 
intervention period.
METHODS: Female 5xFAD mice aged 10 weeks and 18 weeks were exposed to cPMF with 
a carrier frequency of 40 Hz, repeated at 5 Hz for 1 h/d for 8 consecutive 
weeks. The Morris water maze (MWM) test was used for cognitive behavioral 
assessment. Furthermore, changes in molecular pathology within the brain were 
detected using immunofluorescence staining and real-time PCR.
RESULTS: 10-week-old AD mice treated with cPMF explored the target quadrant more 
frequently than sham-exposed AD mice in MWM test, exhibiting improved learning 
and memory abilities. Additionally, cPMF exposure alleviated Aβ plaque 
deposition and astrogliosis in the AD brain. Moreover, neurotrophic factor 
fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) in the AD brain was upregulated by cPMF 
treatment. However, in 18-week-old AD mice treated with cPMF, cognitive 
performance and Fgf1 gene expression were not significantly improved, although 
Aβ plaque deposition and astrogliosis were alleviated.
CONCLUSION: Early intervention via long-term rhythmic cPMF stimulation may 
alleviate the histopathological features and enhance neuroprotective gene Fgf1 
expression, thereby improving the cognitive performance of 5xFAD mice, which 
should provide promising insight for the clinical treatment of patients with AD.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2024.115002
PMID: 39419435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We declare 
that we have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships 
with other people or organizations that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper.


36. Ageing Res Rev. 2024 Nov;101:102547. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102547. Epub
2024  Oct 16.

Harnessing Brainwave Entrainment: A Non-invasive Strategy To Alleviate 
Neurological Disorder Symptoms.

Sahu M(1), Ambasta RK(2), Das SR(2), Mishra MK(3), Shanker A(4), Kumar P(5).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Neuroscience and Functional Genomics Laboratory, Department of 
Biotechnology, Delhi Technological University (Formerly Delhi College of 
Engineering), Shahbad Daulatpur, Bawana Road, Delhi 110042, India.
(2)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center (VUMC), 
Nashville, TN, USA.
(3)Cancer Biology Research and Training, Department of Biological Sciences, 
Alabama State University, Montgomery, AL 36104, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Cancer Biology, Neuroscience & Pharmacology, 
School of Medicine, Meharry Medical College, and The Office for Research and 
Innovation, Meharry Medical College, Nashville, TN 37208, USA.
(5)Molecular Neuroscience and Functional Genomics Laboratory, Department of 
Biotechnology, Delhi Technological University (Formerly Delhi College of 
Engineering), Shahbad Daulatpur, Bawana Road, Delhi 110042, India. Electronic 
address: kpravir@gmail.com.

From 1990-2019, the burden of neurological disorders varied considerably across 
countries and regions. Psychiatric disorders, often emerging in early to 
mid-adulthood, are linked to late-life neurodegenerative diseases like 
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Individuals with conditions such as 
Major Depressive Disorder, Anxiety Disorder, Schizophrenia, and Bipolar Disorder 
face up to four times higher risk of developing neurodegenerative disorders. 
Contrarily, 65 % of those with neurodegenerative conditions experience severe 
psychiatric symptoms during their illness. Further, the limitation of medical 
resources continues to make this burden a significant global and local 
challenge. Therefore, brainwave entrainment provides therapeutic avenues for 
improving the symptoms of diseases. Brainwaves are rhythmic oscillations 
produced either spontaneously or in response to stimuli. Key brainwave patterns 
include gamma, beta, alpha, theta, and delta waves, yet the underlying 
physiological mechanisms and the brain's ability to shift between these dynamic 
states remain areas for further exploration. In neurological disorders, 
brainwaves are often disrupted, a phenomenon termed "oscillopathy". However, 
distinguishing these impaired oscillations from the natural variability in 
brainwave activity across different regions and functional states poses 
significant challenges. Brainwave-mediated therapeutics represents a promising 
research field aimed at correcting dysfunctional oscillations. Herein, we 
discuss a range of non-invasive techniques such as non-invasive brain 
stimulation (NIBS), neurologic music therapy (NMT), gamma stimulation, and 
somatosensory interventions using light, sound, and visual stimuli. These 
approaches, with their minimal side effects and cost-effectiveness, offer 
potential therapeutic benefits. When integrated, they may not only help in 
delaying disease progression but also contribute to the development of 
innovative medical devices for neurological care.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102547
PMID: 39419401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial and conflict of interests in 
this manuscript.


37. Ageing Res Rev. 2025 Feb;104:102548. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102548. Epub
2024  Oct 16.

Inflammatory signaling pathways in Alzheimer's disease: Mechanistic insights and 
possible therapeutic interventions.

Almutary AG(1), Begum MY(2), Kyada AK(3), Gupta S(4), Jyothi SR(5), Chaudhary 
K(6), Sharma S(7), Sinha A(8), Abomughaid MM(9), Imran M(10), Lakhanpal S(11), 
Babalghith AO(12), Abu-Seer EA(13), Avinash D(14), Alzahrani HA(15), Alhindi 
AA(16), Iqbal D(17), Kumar S(18), Jha NK(19), Alghamdi S(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Health Sciences, Abu Dhabi 
University, P.O. Box 59911, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, King Khalid 
University, Abha, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Marwadi University Research Center, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Marwadi University, Rajkot, Gujarat 360003, India.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, GLA University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(5)Department of Biotechnology and Genetics, School of Sciences, JAIN (Deemed to 
be University), Bangalore, Karnataka, India.
(6)Department of Neurology, National Institute of Medical Sciences, NIMS 
University Rajasthan, Jaipur, India.
(7)Chandigarh Pharmacy College, Chandigarh Group of 
Colleges, Jhanjeri, Mohali, Punjab 140307, India.
(8)School of Applied and Life Sciences, Division of Research and Innovation, 
Uttaranchal University, Dehradun, Uttarakhand.
(9)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, University of Bisha, Bisha 61922, Saudi Arabia.
(10)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Northern Border 
University, Rafha 91911, Saudi Arabia; Center for Health Research, Northern 
Border University, Arar, Saudi Arabia.
(11)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional 
University, Phagwara, Punjab 144411, India.
(12)Medical Genetics Department, College of Medicine, Umm Al-Qura 
University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(13)Department of Epidemiology and Medical Statistic, Faculty of Public Health 
and Health Informatics, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(14)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, India.
(15)Department of Respiratory Care, Medical Cities at the Minister of Interior, 
MCMOl, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(16)Respiratory Care Unit, Security Forces Hospital, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(17)Department of Health Information Management, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Buraydah Private Colleges, Buraydah 51418, Saudi Arabia.
(18)School of Pharmacy, Sharda University, Greater Noida, India; DST-FIST 
Laboratory, Sharda University, Greater Noida, India.
(19)Department of Biotechnology, School of Biosciences and Technology (SBT), 
Galgotias University, Greater Noida, India; Centre for Research Impact & 
Outcome, Chitkara University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Chitkara 
University, Rajpura 140401, Punjab, India. Electronic address: 
nirajkumarjha2011@gmail.com.
(20)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, Faculty of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.

The complex pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses challenges for the 
development of therapies. Recently, neuroinflammation has been identified as a 
key pathogenic mechanism underlying AD, while inflammation has emerged as a 
possible target for the management and prevention of AD. Several prior studies 
have demonstrated that medications modulating neuroinflammation might lessen AD 
symptoms, mostly by controlling neuroinflammatory signaling pathways such as the 
NF-κB, MAPK, NLRP3, etc, and their respective signaling cascade. Moreover, 
targeting these inflammatory modalities with inhibitors, natural products, and 
metabolites has been the subject of intensive research because of their 
anti-inflammatory characteristics, with many studies demonstrating noteworthy 
pharmacological capabilities and potential clinical applications. Therefore, 
targeting inflammation is considered a promising strategy for treating AD. This 
review comprehensively elucidates the neuroinflammatory mechanisms underlying AD 
progression and the beneficial effects of inhibitors, natural products, and 
metabolites in AD treatment.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2024.102548
PMID: 39419399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


38. Brain Res. 2024 Dec 15;1845:149280. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149280. Epub
 2024 Oct 16.

Ameliorative effects of Akkermansia muciniphila on anxiety-like behavior and 
cognitive deficits in a rat model of Alzheimer's disease.

Maftoon H(1), Davar Siadat S(2), Tarashi S(2), Soroush E(3), Basir Asefi M(4), 
Rahimi Foroushani A(5), Mehdi Soltan Dallal M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of pathobiology, School of Public Health, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Microbiology Research Center (MRC), Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran; 
Department of Mycobacteriology and Pulmonary Research, Pasteur Institute of 
Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Microbiology Research Center (MRC), Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Iranian National Center for Addiction Studies (INCAS), Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of pathobiology, School of Public Health, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Food Microbiology Research Centre, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
msoltandallal@gmail.com.

Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the primary neurodegenerative disorder in the 
elderly, lacking a definitive treatment. The gut microbiota influences the 
gut-brain axis by aiding in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis 
development and neuromodulator production. Research links AD and gut microbiota, 
suggesting gut microbiota regulation could be a therapeutic approach for AD. 
This study explores Akkermansia muciniphila's impact on preventing AD. This 
research investigates the effect of A. muciniphila consumption (1 × 109 CFU) on 
tau protein-induced AD rats compared to a control group. Rats were divided into 
four groups: sham, sham + Akk, AD (tau-induced rats), and AD + Akk (tau-induced 
rats treated with A. muciniphila). A. muciniphila gavage lasted five weeks. Rats 
underwent qRT-PCR analysis to assess mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory factors 
(TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, IFN-γ) in the hippocampus. Behavioral tests included Morris 
Water Maze (MWM), Passive Avoidance Memory Test (Shuttle box), Elevated Plus 
Maze (EPM), and marble burying. After five weeks of A. muciniphila treatment, 
anxiety-like behavior significantly decreased. The AD group receiving A. 
muciniphila showed improved spatial and recognition memory compared to the AD 
group. Pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IFN-γ) decreased. 
A. muciniphila effectively reduces cognitive impairments and anxiety-related 
behavior, showing promise as an AD therapeutic by influencing the gut-brain 
axis.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2024.149280
PMID: 39419309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


39. Geriatr Nurs. 2024 Nov-Dec;60:440-447. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.09.013. 
Epub 2024 Oct 17.

Efficacy of the CARES® Dementia 5-Step Method for Hospitals™ Online Training and 
Certification Program for hospital staff.

Hobday JV(1), Gaugler JE(2), Joly LK(3), Rosopa PJ(4), Graham BA(4), Cicchinelli 
A(4), Lunde AM(5), Mittelman MS(6).

Author information:
(1)HealthCare Interactive, Inc., 6120 Earle Brown Drive, Suite 214, Minneapolis, 
MN 55430, USA. Electronic address: jhobday@hcinteractive.com.
(2)School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, D351 Mayo (MMC 729), 420 
Delaware Street S.E., Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.
(3)HealthCare Interactive, Inc., 6120 Earle Brown Drive, Suite 214, Minneapolis, 
MN 55430, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Clemson University, 418 Brackett Hall, 321 Calhoun 
Dr, Clemson, SC 29634, USA.
(5)Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street S.W., Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, NYU Langone Health, 145 East 32nd Street, Fifth 
Floor, 509, New York, NY 10016, USA.

The main objective of the current study was to ascertain the efficacy of a newly 
developed online, video-based dementia training and certification program for 
hospital staff, the CARES® Dementia 5-Step Method for Hospitals™ Online Training 
and Certification Program. A parallel randomized waitlist control design was 
utilized. Participants (N = 272) completed online pre-evaluation measures. 
Forty-five days after completion of CARES® (treatment) or pre-evaluation 
measures (control), participants completed a post-evaluation online assessment. 
Analyses of variance found that participants in the treatment condition 
indicated greater and statistically significant (p < .001) increases in sense of 
competence, approaches to dementia, and patient care. The results implied that 
the CARES® Dementia 5-Step Method for Hospitals™ program could serve as a 
dynamic resource for hospitals nationwide to update training and share 
experiences, perspectives, and resources. The inherent scalability of the 
program regarding its acceptability, feasibility, and potential to incorporate 
seamlessly into routine workflows and staff training suggests high 
implementation potential.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.09.013
PMCID: PMC11625599
PMID: 39418921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: John V. Hobday reports a 
relationship with HealthCare Interactive, Inc. that includes: board membership, 
employment, and equity or stocks. HealthCare Interactive, Inc. is the owner of 
the CARES Dementia 5-Step Method Online Training and Certification Program, and 
John V.Hobday is the owner of HealthCare Interactive, Inc. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper. Joseph E. Gaugler reports financial support was provided by 
Healthcare Interactive, Inc. Joseph E. Gaugler reports a relationship with 
Healthcare Interactive, Inc. that includes: consulting or advisory. Joseph E. 
Gaugler, PhD is a scientific consultant of Healthcare Interactive, Inc. If there 
are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the 
work reported in this paper. Lisa K. Joly reports a relationship with HealthCare 
Interactive, Inc. that includes: employment. HealthCare Interactive, Inc. owns 
the CARES Dementia 5-Step Method Online Training and Certification Program, and 
Lisa K. Joly is an employee of HealthCare Interactive, Inc. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.


40. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Apr;398(4):4123-4148. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-024-03536-3. Epub 2024 Oct 17.

A promise of nose to brain delivery of bevacizumab intranasal sol-gel 
formulation substantiated in rat C6 glioma model.

Desai S(1), Thorat P(1), Majumdar A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Bombay College of Pharmacy, Santacruz East, 
Mumbai, 400098, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Bombay College of Pharmacy, Santacruz East, 
Mumbai, 400098, India. anuradha.majumdar@gmail.com.

Retraction in
    Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Jun;398(6):7653. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-025-04177-w.

Glioblastoma is one of the rapidly spreading cancers, with its potent malignancy 
often linked to pronounced angiogenesis within tumors. To mitigate this 
vascularization profile, bevacizumab (Avastin®), a monoclonal antibody, has been 
utilized for its antiangiogenic activity. However, its effectiveness is hindered 
by challenges in crossing the blood-brain barrier and the risk of off-target 
organ toxicity. Delivering drugs directly from the nose to the brain through the 
olfactory or trigeminal nerves bypassing the blood-brain barrier offers enhanced 
bioavailability and a more precise targeting strategy. To overcome these 
challenges, we aimed to develop bevacizumab in situ gel loaded mesoporous silica 
nanoparticles for intranasal delivery and further examine their pharmacokinetic 
and pharmacodynamic characteristics. The intranasal gel of mesoporous silica 
nanoparticles loaded with bevacizumab was optimized and formulated using a 
factorial and quality by design approach. In the case of bevacizumab mesoporous 
silica nanoparticles, lower particle size and most negative zeta potential were 
selected as quality target product profiles which is important for drug loading 
on the mesoporous silica nanoparticles and also transport of these nanoparticles 
across the nasal mucosa to the brain. A design space with a multidimensional 
combination of input variables and process parameters has been demonstrated to 
assure quality. To optimize the design space and achieve the desired quality 
standards, the base catalyst and surfactant concentration were chosen as the 
critical process parameters, while particle size and zeta potential were 
identified as the critical quality attributes. The novel formulation was 
assessed for physicochemical parameters such as particle size, zeta potential, 
entrapment efficiency, appearance, color, consistency, and pH. Additionally, 
studies on in vitro release, ex vivo permeation, stability, nasal toxicity, 
organ safety, and bioavailability were conducted. The efficacy study was 
conducted in an orthotopic murine glioblastoma rat model in which C6 Luc cells 
were instilled in the striatum of the rat's brain. In vivo, bioluminescence 
imaging of brain tumors was carried out to observe the tumor regression after 
treatment with the intranasal and intravenous bevacizumab formulation. 
Biochemical parameters and histopathology were performed for organ safety 
studies. The optimized intranasal formulation exhibited an average particle size 
of 318.8 nm and a zeta potential of - 14.7 mV for the mesoporous silica 
nanoparticles. The formulation also demonstrated an entrapment efficiency of 
91.34% and a loading capacity of 45.67%. Further pharmacokinetic studies 
revealed that the optimized intranasal bevacizumab formulation achieved a 
significantly higher brain concentration Cmax = 147.9 ng/ml, indicating improved 
bioavailability compared to rats administered with intravenous bevacizumab 
formulation (BEVATAS®), which had a Cmax of 127.2 ng/ml. Moreover, this 
nanoparticle formulation entirely mitigated systemic exposure to bevacizumab. 
Organ safety evaluation of different biochemical parameters and 
histopathological analyses revealed that the intranasal bevacizumab-treated 
group was showing less off-target organ toxicity compared to the group treated 
with intravenous bevacizumab formulation. Subsequently, the efficacy of this 
nanosystem was evaluated in an orthotopic glioblastoma rat model, monitoring 
tumor growth over time through in vivo bioluminescence imaging and assessing 
anti-angiogenic effects. Twenty-one days post-induction, mesoporous silica 
nanoparticles loaded with bevacizumab in situ gel exhibited a marked reduction 
in average bioluminescence radiance (4.39 × 103) from day 7 (1.35 × 107) 
emphasizing an enhanced anti-angiogenic effect compared to the group treated 
with intravenous bevacizumab formulation which showed a gradual decrease in 
average bioluminescence radiance (4.82 × 104) from day 7 (1.42 × 107). These 
results suggest that the proposed novel formulation of mesoporous silica 
nanoparticles loaded bevacizumab in situ gel could serve as a promising avenue 
to enhance glioblastoma treatment efficacy, thereby potentially improving 
patient quality of life and survival rates significantly. Furthermore, the 
success of this delivery method could open new avenues for treating other 
neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
multiple sclerosis, and stroke. By providing effective brain-targeted therapies, 
this approach has the potential to revolutionize treatment options and improve 
outcomes for a broad spectrum of neurological conditions.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-024-03536-3
PMID: 39417842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Rats were used 
as test subjects for the in vivo animal investigations, which were approved by 
the Institutional Animal Ethics Committee (IAEC) (Protocol no. BCP/2021–01/03, 
BCP/2022–02/02, and BCP/2023–01/02). There were no human studies conducted as 
part of the research. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.


41. J Mater Chem B. 2024 Oct 30;12(42):10850-10860. doi: 10.1039/d4tb01147c.

An in situ-activated and chemi-excited photooxygenation system based on 
G-poly(thioacetal) for Aβ(1-42) aggregates.

Liu S(1), Li Y(2), Yang J(1), Zhang L(1), Yan J(1).

Author information:
(1)MOE International Joint Research Laboratory on Synthetic Biology and 
Medicines, School of Biology and Biological Engineering, South China University 
of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, P. R. China. lzhangce@scut.edu.cn.
(2)School of Medicine, Foshan University, Foshan 528225, P. R. China.

The abnormal aggregation of Aβ proteins, inflammatory responses, and 
mitochondrial dysfunction have been reported as major targets in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Photooxygenation of the amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) is viewed as a 
promising therapeutic intervention for AD treatment. However, the limitations of 
the depth of the external light source passing through the brain and the toxic 
side effects on healthy tissues are two significant challenges in the 
photooxidation of Aβ aggregates. We proposed a method to initiate the chemical 
stimulation of Aβ1-42 aggregate oxidation through H2O2 and correct the abnormal 
microenvironment of the lesions by eliminating the cascading reactions of 
oxidative stress. The degradable G-poly(thioacetal) undergoes cascade release of 
cinnamaldehyde (CA) and thioacetal triggered by endogenous H2O2, with CA in turn 
amplifying degradation by generating more H2O2 through mitochondrial 
dysfunction. A series of novel photosensitizers have been prepared and 
synthesized for use in the photodynamic oxidation of Aβ1-42 aggregates under 
white light activation. The nanoparticles (BD-6-QM/NPs) self-assembled from 
BD-6-QM, bis[2,4,5-trichloro-6-(pentoxycarbonyl) phenyl] ester (CPPO), and 
G-poly(thioacetal) not only exhibit H2O2-stimulated controlled release but also 
can be chemically triggered by H2O2 to generate singlet oxygen to inhibit Aβ1-42 
aggregates, reducing the Aβ1-42-induced neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1039/d4tb01147c
PMID: 39417544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8503-8515. doi: 10.1002/alz.14287. Epub
2024  Oct 17.

Biomarker pathway heterogeneity of amyloid-positive individuals.

Prosser L(1), Sudre CH(1)(2)(3)(4), Oxtoby NP(3), Young AL(3), Malone IB(1), 
Manning EN(1), Pemberton H(1), Walsh P(1), Barkhof F(3)(5), Biessels GJ(6), Cash 
DM(1), Barnes J(1); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Queen 
Square Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London, UK.
(2)School of Biomedical Engineering and Imaging Sciences, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(3)Centre for Medical Image Computing, University College London, London, UK.
(4)MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing at UCL, Department of Population 
Sciences and Experimental Medicine, University College London, London, UK.
(5)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, VU University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, UMC Utrecht Brain Center, 
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: In amyloid-positive individuals, disease-related biomarker 
heterogeneity is understudied.
METHODS: We used Subtype and Stage Inference (SuStaIn) to identify data-driven 
subtypes among cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amyloid beta (1-42)-positive 
individuals from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNIGO/2 
[n = 376]). Variables included: CSF phosphorylated tau (p-tau181), hippocampal 
and whole-brain volume, logical memory (LM), composite Trail Making Test score, 
and white matter hyperintensity (WMH) volumes. CSF amyloid-negative, 
apolipoprotein E ε4 non-carrier cognitively unimpaired controls (n = 86) were 
used to calculate z scores.
RESULTS: One subtype (n = 145) had early LM changes, with later p-tau and WMH 
changes. A second subtype (n = 88) had early WMH changes, were older, and more 
hypertensive. A third subtype (n = 100) had early p-tau changes, and reflected 
typical Alzheimer's disease. Some amyloid positive (n = 43) individuals were 
similar to the amyloid-negative group.
DISCUSSION: This work identified heterogeneity in individuals who are 
conventionally considered homogeneous, which is likely driven by co-pathologies 
including cerebrovascular disease.
HIGHLIGHTS: Data-driven modeling identified marker heterogeneity in 
amyloid-positive individuals. Heterogeneity reflected Alzheimer's disease-like, 
vascular-like, and mixed pathology presentations. Some amyloid-positive 
individuals were more similar to amyloid-negative controls. Vascular pathology 
plays a key role in understanding heterogeneity in those on the amyloid pathway.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14287
PMCID: PMC11667528
PMID: 39417393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: L. Prosser reports no disclosures additional to 
those that support the DRC. C. H. Sudre reports no disclosures additional to 
those that support the DRC. N. P. Oxtoby consults for Queen Square Analytics 
Limited (UK). A. L. Young was supported by the Wellcome Trust (227341/Z/23/Z). 
I. B. Malone is supported by grants to his institution from NIH and is an 
employee of the DRC which is supported by Alzheimer's Research UK, Brain 
Research Trust, and The Wolfson Foundation. E. M. Manning reports no disclosures 
additional to those that support the DRC. H. Pemberton reports no disclosures 
additional to those that support the DRC. P. Walsh reports no disclosures 
additional to those that support the DRC. F. Barkhof supported by the NIHR 
biomedical research centre at UCLH. F. Barkhof is part of the Steering committee 
or data safety monitoring board member for Biogen, Merck, Eisai, and Prothena; 
is an advisory board member for Combinostics and Scottish Brain Sciences; a 
consultant for Roche, Celltrion, Rewind Therapeutics, Merck, and Bracco; has 
research agreements with ADDI, Merck, Biogen, GE Healthcare, and Roche; and is a 
co‐founder and shareholder of Queen Square Analytics LTD. G. J. Biessels reports 
no additional disclosures. D. M. Cash reports no disclosures additional to those 
that support the DRC. J. Barnes reports no disclosures additional to those that 
support the DRC. Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


43. Pharm Biol. 2024 Dec;62(1):767-780. doi: 10.1080/13880209.2024.2415660. Epub 
2024 Oct 17.

Integrating network pharmacology and experimental validation to investigate the 
effects and mechanism of Renshen Shouwu decoction for ameliorating Alzheimer's 
disease.

Liu JJ(1)(2), Yang JB(2), Wang Y(2), Hu XR(2), Wang YD(2), Nie LX(2), Wei F(2), 
Yu JD(2), Yao LW(2), Xu BL(3), Ma SC(1)(2), Jin HY(1).

Author information:
(1)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China.
(2)National Institutes for Food and Drug Control, Beijing, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Harbin University of Commerce, Harbin, China.

CONTEXT: The mechanism of Renshen Shouwu Decoction (RSSW) in treating 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the effects and mechanism of RSSW for 
ameliorating AD.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten SAMR1 mice and 40 SAMP8 mice were divided into five 
groups: control (SAMR1), model (SAMP8), positive drug (Donepezil, 1.3 mg/kg/d), 
and RSSW (Low-dose, 117 mg/kg/d; High-dose, 234 mg/kg/d). Starting from 6 months 
of age, the medications were administered intragastrically for a total of 
60 days. Subsequently, memory improvement in rapidly aging mice was assessed 
using the novel object recognition test and Morris water maze test. Through the 
identification of absorbed blood components and analysis of network 
pharmacology, active ingredients and potential targets involved in the treatment 
of AD were identified. Finally, AD-related biological indicators were detected 
using western blotting and ELISA.
RESULT: Our results demonstrated that RSSW effectively ameliorated memory 
impairments, inhibited tau hyperphosphorylation, and reduced β-amyloid plaque 
deposition in SAMP8 mice. Thirty absorbed blood components in RSSW were 
identified, revealing identified 96 major targets that play a key role in 
alleviating AD. Notably, the obtained main targets were highly enriched in 
SIRT1-mediated signaling pathways. Subsequent experimental validation confirmed 
that RSSW activated the SIRT1/NF-κB, SIRT1/AMPK, and SIRT1/p53 signaling 
cascades. Nine potential active ingredients were predicted through molecular 
docking.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Our research findings suggest the mechanism of RSSW 
treatment for AD, which ameliorates memory impairments by reducing cortical 
tissue inflammation and apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1080/13880209.2024.2415660
PMCID: PMC11488172
PMID: 39417324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


44. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 13:2024.10.11.24315344. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.11.24315344.

APOE4 carriers display loss of anticipatory cerebral vascular regulation over AD 
progression.

Palmer JA(1)(2)(3), Kaufman CS(4)(5), Whitaker-Hilbig AA(6)(7), Billinger 
SA(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science, University of 
Minnesota Medical School, , Minneapolis, MN, United States of America.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS, United States of America.
(3)University of Kansas Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Fairway, KS, United 
States of America.
(4)Department of Molecular & Integrative Physiology, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS, United States of America.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Stanford Health Care, Stanford University, 
Palo Alto, CA, United States of America.
(6)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, 123 Milwaukee Way, Milwaukee, WI, United States of America.
(7)Cardiovascular Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United 
States of America.

Update in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 May;21(5):e70229. doi: 10.1002/alz.70229.

INTRODUCTION: Maintenance of cerebral blood flow during orthostasis is impaired 
with aging and associated with cognitive decline, but the effect of 
Apolipoprotein 4-allele (APOE4) is unknown.
METHODS: Older adults (n=108) (APOE4 carriers, n=47; noncarriers, n=61) 
diagnosed as cognitively-normal (NC), MCI, or AD participated. Middle cerebral 
artery blood velocity (MCAv), assessed using Transcranial Doppler ultrasound, 
and beat-to-beat mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) were continuously recorded 
during a sit-to-stand transition. Anticipatory and orthostatic-induced MCAv and 
MAP responses were compared between genotypes and across disease progression.
RESULTS: Cognitively-normal APOE4 carriers showed greater anticipatory MCAv 
increase, greater MCAv decrease with orthostasis, and shorter latency of 
peripheral MAP responses to orthostasis compared to noncarriers. MCAv and MAP 
responses were delayed and attenuated across the APOE4 disease progression, with 
no differences between genotypes in MCI and AD.
DISCUSSION: APOE4 carriers and noncarriers present with distinct phenotypes of 
cerebral vascular dysfunction during hemodynamic orthostatic challenge. Unique 
cerebral and peripheral vascular compensation observed in APOE4 carriers may be 
lost as AD progresses.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.11.24315344
PMCID: PMC11482999
PMID: 39417136

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES: The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


45. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Dec 7:2024.10.07.24315029. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.07.24315029.

NIAGADS: A Comprehensive National Data Repository for Alzheimer's Disease and 
Related Dementia Genetics and Genomics Research.

Kuzma A(1), Valladares O(1), Greenfest-Allen E(1), Nicaretta H(1), Kirsch M(1), 
Ren Y(1), Katanic Z(1), White H(1), Wilk A(1), Bass L(1), Brettschneider J(1), 
Carter L(1), Cifello J(1), Chuang WH(1), Clark K(1), Gangadharan P(1), Haut 
J(1)(2), Ho PC(1), Horng W(1), Iqbal T(1)(2), Jin Y(1), Keskinen P(1), Rose 
AL(1), Moon MK(1), Manuel J(1), Qu L(1), Robbins F(1), Saravanan N(1), Sha 
J(1)(2), Tate S(1), Zhao Y(1); Alzheimer’s Disease Sequencing Project; Cantwell 
L(1), Gardner J(1)(3), Chou SY(1)(4)(5), Tzeng JY(1)(6)(7), Bush W(8), Naj 
A(1)(2), Kuksa P(1), Lee WP(1), Leung YY(1), Schellenberg G(1), Wang LS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Penn Neurodegeneration 
Genomics Center, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, United States.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Computer and Information Science, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Economics, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, United States.
(5)National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA, United States.
(6)Bioinformatics Research Center, North Carolina State University, NC, USA.
(7)Department of Statistics, North Carolina State University, NC, USA.
(8)Cleveland Institute for Computational Biology, Department of Population and 
Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.

Update in
    Alzheimers Dement. 2025 Jun;21(6):e70255. doi: 10.1002/alz.70255.

NIAGADS is the National Institute on Aging (NIA) designated national data 
repository for human genetics research on Alzheimer's Disease and related 
dementia (ADRD). NIAGADS maintains a high-quality data collection for ADRD 
genetic/genomic research and supports genetics data production and analysis. 
NIAGADS hosts whole genome and exome sequence data from the Alzheimer's Disease 
Sequencing Project (ADSP) and other genotype/phenotype data, encompassing 
209,000 samples. NIAGADS shares these data with hundreds of research groups 
around the world via the Data Sharing Service, a FISMA moderate compliant 
cloud-based platform that fully supports the NIH Genome Data Sharing Policy. 
NIAGADS Open Access consists of multiple knowledge bases with genome-wide 
association summary statistics and rich annotations on the biological 
significance of genetic variants and genes across the human genome. NIAGADS 
stands as a keystone in promoting collaborations to advance the understanding 
and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.07.24315029
PMCID: PMC11483014
PMID: 39417134


46. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 7:2024.10.04.24314853. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.04.24314853.

Genome-wide scan of Flortaucipir PET levels finds JARID2 associated with 
cerebral tau deposition.

Gunasekaran TI(1), Meena D(2), Lee AJ(3)(4)(5), Wu S(2), Dumitrescu L(6)(7), 
Sperling R(8)(9), Hohman TJ(6)(7); Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative; 
A4 Study; Huang J(2), Dehghan A(2)(10)(11), Tzoulaki I(12)(2), Mayeux 
R(1)(3)(5), Vardarajan B(1)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, UK.
(3)Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, The New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, USA.
(5)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, USA.
(6)Vanderbilt Memory and Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(7)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(8)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA.
(9)Center for Alzheimer Research and Treatment, Department of Neurology, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(10)BHF Centre of Excellence, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, 
London, UK.
(11)UK Dementia Research Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(12)Systems Biology, Biomedical Research Foundation of the Academy of Athens, 
Athens, Greece.

BACKGROUND: Genetic research on Alzheimer's disease (AD) has primarily focused 
on amyloid-β (Aβ) pathogenesis, with fewer studies exploring tau pathology. 
Elucidating the genetic basis of tau pathology could identify novel pathways in 
AD.
METHODS: We conducted a genome-wide association study of tau standard uptake 
value ratios (SUVRs) from [18]F-flortaucipir positron emission tomography (PET) 
images to identify genetic variants underlying Tau pathology. Genetic data and 
tau-SUVRs from [18]F-flortaucipir PET images were acquired from the A4 (311 with 
preclinical AD) and ADNI (280 cognitively normal, 76 with mild cognitive 
impairment, and 19 AD patients) studies. Circulating plasma proteins in UK 
Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKBPPP, N=54,129) were used to validate 
genetic findings. SNP genotypes were tested for association with Tau-SUVR levels 
adjusting for age, sex and population substructure variables. AD association of 
polygenic risk scores (PRS) of tau and amyloid-SUVRs were assessed. Causal 
effect of plasma protein levels on Tau pathology were tested using Mendelian 
randomization analyses.
RESULTS: GWAS of tau-SUVR revealed two significant loci: rs78636169 
(P=5.76×10-10) in JARID2 and rs7292124 (P=2.20×10-8) near ISX. Gene-based 
analysis of tau deposition highlighted APOE (P=2.55×10-6), CTNNA3 (P=2.86×10-6) 
and JARID2 (P=1.23×10-4), a component of the PRC2 multi-protein complex which 
regulates gene expression. Mendelian randomization analysis of available 
circulating plasma proteins in the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKBPPP) 
identified LRRFIP1, a protein that binds with PRC2 multi-protein complex, as 
potentially causally linked to tau pathology. Genes associated with both amyloid 
and tau pathologies were enriched in endocytosis and signal transduction 
pathways. AD polygenic risk score (PRS) was associated with amyloid-SUVR but not 
with tau-SUVR. Amyloid-SUVR PRS had a notable association with AD clinical 
status, particularly in younger APOE-ε4 carriers, whereas tau-SUVR PRS showed a 
stronger association in older carriers.
CONCLUSION: We identified a novel potential therapeutic target, JARID2 in the 
PRC2 multi-protein complex, for tau pathology. Furthermore, gene pathway 
analysis clarified the distinct roles of Aβ and tau in AD progression, 
underscoring the complexity of genetic influences across different stages of the 
disease.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.04.24314853
PMCID: PMC11482994
PMID: 39417126


47. ACS Pharmacol Transl Sci. 2024 Sep 26;7(10):2987-3003. doi: 
10.1021/acsptsci.4c00457. eCollection 2024 Oct 11.

Demystifying the Role of Neuroinflammatory Mediators as Biomarkers for 
Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: A Review.

Doke RR(1), Lamkhade GJ(2), Vinchurkar K(3), Singh S(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Jaihind College of Pharmacy, Vadgaon Sahani, Pune, Maharashtra 412401, India.
(2)Samarth Institute of Pharmacy, Belhe, Pune, Maharashtra 412410, India.
(3)Krishna School of Pharmacy, Kiran and Pallavi Patel Global University, 
Vadodara, Gujarat 391243, India.
(4)Office of Research Administration, Chiang Mai University, Chaing Mai 50200, 
Thailand.
(5)Faculty of Pharmacy, Chiang Mai University, Chaing Mai 50200, Thailand.

Neuroinflammatory mediators play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD), influencing its onset, progression, and severity. The 
precise mechanisms behind AD are still not fully understood, leading current 
treatments to focus mainly on managing symptoms rather than preventing or curing 
the condition. The amyloid and tau hypotheses are the most widely accepted 
explanations for AD pathology; however, they do not completely account for the 
neuronal degeneration observed in AD. Growing evidence underscores the crucial 
role of neuroinflammation in the pathology of AD. The neuroinflammatory 
hypothesis presents a promising new approach to understanding the mechanisms 
driving AD. This review examines the importance of neuroinflammatory biomarkers 
in the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of AD. It delves into the mechanisms 
underlying neuroinflammation in AD, highlighting the involvement of various 
mediators such as cytokines, chemokines, and ROS. Additionally, this review 
discusses the potential of neuroinflammatory biomarkers as diagnostic tools, 
prognostic indicators, and therapeutic targets for AD management. By 
understanding the intricate interplay between neuroinflammation and AD 
pathology, this review aims to help in the development of efficient diagnostic 
and treatment plans to fight this debilitating neurological condition. 
Furthermore, it elaborates recent advancements in neuroimaging techniques and 
biofluid analysis for the identification and monitoring of neuroinflammatory 
biomarkers in AD patients.

© 2024 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsptsci.4c00457
PMCID: PMC11475310
PMID: 39416969

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


48. Front Neurosci. 2024 Oct 2;18:1469903. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1469903. 
eCollection 2024.

Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy in neurodegenerative disease: a review.

Xie L(1), Liu Y(1), Gao Y(1), Zhou J(1).

Author information:
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China.

In recent years, with the aggravation of aging, the incidence of 
neurodegenerative diseases is increasing year by year, and the prognosis of 
patients is poor. Functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS) is a new and 
non-invasive neuroimaging technology, which has been gradually deepened in the 
application research of neurodegenerative diseases by virtue of its unique 
neurooxygen signal brain functional imaging characteristics in monitoring the 
disease condition, making treatment plans and evaluating the treatment effect. 
In this paper, the mechanism of action and technical characteristics of fNIRS 
are briefly introduced, and the application research of fNIRS in different 
neurodegenerative diseases is summarized in order to provide new ideas for 
future related research and clinical application.

Copyright © 2024 Xie, Liu, Gao and Zhou.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1469903
PMCID: PMC11479976
PMID: 39416953

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


49. Front Neurosci. 2024 Oct 2;18:1467333. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1467333. 
eCollection 2024.

MAD-microbial (origin of) Alzheimer's disease hypothesis: from infection and the 
antimicrobial response to disruption of key copper-based systems.

Min JH(1), Sarlus H(1), Harris RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Center for Molecular Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital at Solna, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

Microbes have been suspected to cause Alzheimer's disease since at least 1908, 
but this has generally remained unpopular in comparison to the amyloid 
hypothesis and the dominance of Aβ and Tau. However, evidence has been 
accumulating to suggest that these earlier theories are but a manifestation of a 
common cause that can trigger and interact with all the major molecular players 
recognized in AD. Aβ, Tau and ApoE, in particular appear to be molecules with 
normal homeostatic functions but also with alternative antimicrobial functions. 
Their alternative functions confer the non-immune specialized neuron with some 
innate intracellular defenses that appear to be re-appropriated from their 
normal functions in times of need. Indeed, signs of infection of the neurons by 
biofilm-forming microbial colonies, in synergy with herpes viruses, are evident 
from the clinical and preclinical studies we discuss. Furthermore, we attempt to 
provide a mechanistic understanding of the AD landscape by discussing the 
antimicrobial effect of Aβ, Tau and ApoE and Lactoferrin in AD, and a possible 
mechanistic link with deficiency of vital copper-based systems. In particular, 
we focus on mitochondrial oxidative respiration via complex 4 and ceruloplasmin 
for iron homeostasis, and how this is similar and possibly central to 
neurodegenerative diseases in general. In the case of AD, we provide evidence 
for the microbial Alzheimer's disease (MAD) theory, namely that AD could in fact 
be caused by a long-term microbial exposure or even long-term infection of the 
neurons themselves that results in a costly prolonged antimicrobial response 
that disrupts copper-based systems that govern neurotransmission, iron 
homeostasis and respiration. Finally, we discuss potential treatment modalities 
based on this holistic understanding of AD that incorporates the many separate 
and seemingly conflicting theories. If the MAD theory is correct, then the 
reduction of microbial exposure through use of broad antimicrobial and 
anti-inflammatory treatments could potentially alleviate AD although this 
requires further clinical investigation.

Copyright © 2024 Min, Sarlus and Harris.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2024.1467333
PMCID: PMC11480022
PMID: 39416952

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


50. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 12:2024.10.10.617678. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.10.617678.

Early disruption of entorhinal dopamine in a knock-in model of Alzheimer's 
disease.

Nakagawa T, Xie JL, Savadkohighodjanaki M, Zhang YJ, Jun H, Cao K, Ichii A, Lee 
JY, Soma S, Medhat YK, Saido TC, Igarashi KM.

The entorhinal cortex (EC) is a critical brain area for memory formation, while 
also the region exhibiting the earliest histological and functional alterations 
in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The EC thus has been long hypothesized as one of 
the originating brain areas of AD pathophysiology, although circuit mechanisms 
causing its selective vulnerability remain poorly understood. We found that 
dopamine neurons projecting their axons to the lateral EC (LEC), critical for 
memory formation in healthy brains, become dysfunctional and cause memory 
impairments in early AD brains. In amyloid precursor protein knock-in mice with 
associative memory impairment, LEC dopamine activity and associative memory 
encoding of LEC layer 2/3 neurons were disrupted in parallel from the early 
pathological stage. Optogenetic reactivation of LEC dopamine fibers, as well as 
L- DOPA treatment, rescued associative learning behavior. These results suggest 
that dysfunction of LEC-projecting dopamine neurons underlies memory impairment 
in AD from early stages, pointing to a need for clinical investigation of LEC 
dopamine in AD patients.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.10.617678
PMCID: PMC11482956
PMID: 39416095


51. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 11:2024.10.08.617019. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.08.617019.

Isotope Encoded chemical Imaging Identifies Amyloid Plaque Age Dependent 
Structural Maturation, Synaptic Loss, and Increased Toxicity.

Wood JI(1)(2), Dulewicz M(1), Ge J(1), Stringer K(1)(2), Szadziewska A(1), Desai 
S(1)(2), Koutarapu S(1), Hajar HB(2), Blennow K(1)(3)(4)(5), Zetterberg 
H(1)(3)(6)(7)(8)(9), Cummings DM(2), Savas JN(10), Edwards FA(2), Hanrieder 
J(1)(3)(6)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neurochemistry, Sahlgrenska Academy at the 
University of Gothenburg, Mölndal Hospital, House V, S-431 80 Mölndal, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College 
London, Gower Street, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Clinical Neurochemistry LaboratoryMemory Clinic, Sahlgrenska University 
Hospital, Mölndal Hospital, House V, S-431 80 Mölndal, Sweden.
(4)Paris Brain Institute, ICM, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Sorbonne University, 
Paris, France.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disorder Research Center, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, and Department of Neurology, Institute on Aging and Brain Disorders, 
University of Science and Technology of China and First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, Hefei, P.R. China.
(6)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
University College London, Queens Square, WC1N 3BG London, United Kingdom.
(7)UK Dementia Research Institute at UCL, London, UK.
(8)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.
(9)Wisconsin Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Wisconsin School 
of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(10)Department of Neurology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.
(11)SciLifeLab, University of Gothenburg, 40530 Gothenburg, Sweden.

It is of critical importance to our understanding of Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
pathology to determine how key pathological factors are interconnected and 
implicated in nerve cell death, clinical symptoms, and disease progression. The 
formation of extracellular beta-amyloid (Aβ) plaques is the major pathological 
hallmark of AD and Aβ has been suggested to be a critical inducer of AD, driving 
disease pathogenesis. Exactly how Aβ plaque formation begins and how ongoing 
plaque deposition proceeds and initiates subsequent neurotoxic mechanisms is not 
well understood. The primary aim of our research is to elucidate the biochemical 
processes underlying early Aβ plaque formation in brain tissue. We recently 
introduced a chemical imaging paradigm based on mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) 
and metabolic isotope labelling to follow stable isotope labelling kinetics 
(iSILK) in vivo to track the in vivo build-up and deposition of Aβ. Herein, 
knock-in Aβ mouse models (App NL-F ) that develop Aβ pathology gradually are 
metabolically labeled with stable isotopes. This chemical imaging approach 
timestamps amyloid plaques during the period of initial deposition allowing the 
fate of aggregating Aβ species from before and during the earliest events of 
plaque pathology through plaque maturation to be tracked. To identify the 
molecular and cellular response to plaque maturation, we integrated iSILK with 
single plaque transcriptomics performed on adjacent tissue sections. This 
enabled changes in gene expression to be tracked as a function of plaque age (as 
encoded in the Aβ peptide isotopologue pattern) distinct from changes due to the 
chronological age or pathological severity. This approach identified that plaque 
age correlates negatively with gene expression patterns associated with synaptic 
function as early as in 10-month-old animals but persists into 18 months. 
Finally, we integrated hyperspectral confocal microscopy into our multiomic 
approach to image amyloid structural isomers, revealing a positive correlation 
between plaque age and amyloid structural maturity. This analysis identified 
three categories of plaques, each with a distinct impact on the surrounding 
microenvironment. Here, we identified that older, more compact plaques were 
associated with the most significant synapse loss and toxicity. These data show 
how isotope-encoded MS imaging can be used to delineate Aβ toxicity dynamics in 
vivo. Moreover, we show for the first time a functional integration of dynamic 
MSI, structural plaque imaging and whole genome-wide spatial transcriptomics at 
the single plaque level. This multiomic approach offers an unprecedented 
combination of temporal and spatial resolution enabling a description of the 
earliest events of precipitating amyloid pathology and how Aβ modulates 
synaptotoxic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.08.617019
PMCID: PMC11482761
PMID: 39416086

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest HZ has served at 
scientific advisory boards and/or as a consultant for Abbvie, Acumen, Alector, 
Alzinova, ALZPath, Amylyx, Annexon, Apellis, Artery Therapeutics, AZTherapies, 
Cognito Therapeutics, CogRx, Denali, Eisai, LabCorp, Merry Life, Nervgen, Novo 
Nordisk, Optoceutics, Passage Bio, Pinteon Therapeutics, Prothena, Red Abbey 
Labs, reMYND, Roche, Samumed, Siemens Healthineers, Triplet Therapeutics, and 
Wave, has given lectures sponsored by Alzecure, Biogen, Cellectricon, Fujirebio, 
Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Roche, and WebMD, and is a co-founder of Brain Biomarker 
Solutions in Gothenburg AB (BBS), which is a part of the GU Ventures Incubator 
Program (outside submitted work).


52. Curr Comput Aided Drug Des. 2025;21(3):285-301. doi: 
10.2174/0115734099309926241007055607.

Anti-inflammatory Potential of Costus speciosus rhizome Bioactive 
Phytochemicals: A Combined GC-MS and Computational Approach Targeting TLR-4 
Signaling.

Raj A(1), Chakravorty A(1), Luktuke S(1), Santra S(2), Das S(1), Sahoo S(3), 
Ramesh K(1), Ali NF(1), Sana SS(4), Jayanthi S(5), Samanta A(6)(7), Raghavan 
V(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nanotechnology Research, Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore, 
632014, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Vidyasagar University, Midnapore, 721102, West 
Bengal, India.
(3)Centre for Life Sciences, Vidyasagar University, Midnapore, 721102, West 
Bengal, India.
(4)School of Chemical Engineering, Yeungnam University, Gyeongbuk, 
Gyeongsan-3854, South Korea.
(5)Department of Biotechnology, School of Biosciences and Technology, Vellore 
Institute of Technology, Vellore, 632014, Tamil Nadu, India.
(6)Department of Botany, Jhargram Raj College, Jhargram, West Bengal, 721507, 
India.
(7)Department of Botany and Forestry, Vidyasagar University, Midnapore, 721102, 
West Bengal, India.

BACKGROUND: Plants represent a rich reservoir of bioactive compounds with 
established therapeutic value in diverse diseases. Notably, the Toll-like 
receptor-4 (TLR-4) signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in inflammation. Upon 
engagement with pro-inflammatory ligands like lipopolysaccharide, TLR-4 triggers 
downstream cascades involving nuclear factor ĸappa B and mitogen- activated 
protein kinases. This signaling cascade ultimately dictates the onset and 
progression of inflammatory diseases. Therefore, targeting TLR-4 signaling 
offers a promising therapeutic approach for managing inflammatory disorders.
METHODS: This study investigated the potential of Costus speciosus rhizome 
phytocompounds, a traditional medicinal plant, as novel as modulators of TLR-4 
signaling, highlighting their mechanisms of action and potential clinical 
applications. In the present study, 18 phytocompounds isolated from the rhizome 
of Costus speciosus, were studied against TLR-4/AP-1 signaling, which is 
implicated in the inflammatory process using a computational approach.
RESULTS: The compounds exhibited binding affinities ranging from -4.087 to -8.93 
kcal/mol with the TLR-4 protein due to the formation of multiple intermolecular 
interactions. Benzenepropanoic acid, 3,5-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-hydroxy-, 
methyl ester (compound 7) exhibited exceptional binding energy (-8.93 kcal/mol), 
indicating strong affinity for the TLR-4 protein. Additionally, compound 7 
displayed favorable ADMET properties, suggesting promising drug development 
potential. Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of the 
compound 7-TLR4 complex, further supporting its ability to modulate TLR-4 
signaling.
CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of Costus 
speciosus phytocompounds, particularly compound 7, as potent anti-inflammatory 
modulators. Further research is warranted to validate their anti-inflammatory 
and neuroprotective effects in pre-clinical models, paving the way for their 
development as novel therapeutic agents for inflammatory diseases.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0115734099309926241007055607
PMID: 39415588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Antiinflamm Antiallergy Agents Med Chem. 2025;24(2):75-83. doi: 
10.2174/0118715230310192240925165925.

A Review on Phytochemical Constituents used as Current Treatment Strategies for 
Neurodegenerative Disease.

Jee K(1), Gaur R(2), Kadian JP(3), Meenu K(4), Murtaza M(5), Verma SK(6), Malik 
B(7), Shilpa K(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, CARE College of Pharmacy (Chinmaya 
Advance Research Education), Rohalki, Kishanpur, Bahadrabad, Haridwar (U.K.), 
India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA 
University (U.P.), Mathura, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Shobit University, Gango (U.P.), Saharanpur, 
India.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Himalayan Institute of Pharmacy and Research, 
Dehradun (U.K.), India.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Glocal University, Saharanpur (U.P.), India.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Motherhood University, Roorkee, (U.K.), India.
(7)Department of Pharmacognosy, Translam Institute of Pharmacy Education and 
Research, Meerut, (U.P.), India.
(8)Department of Pharmaceutics, Roorkee College of Pharmacy, Roorkee (U.K.), 
India.

In today's time, a diversity of neurodegenerative diseases that widely affect 
the CNS causing insufficiency in particular brain processes such as memory, 
mobility, and cognition due to the moderate loss of CNS neurons. This review 
emphasizes different phytochemical constituents used widely for the prevention 
or treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease 
(AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Berberin (BBR), which is an isoquinoline 
class of alkaloid and isolated from the plant Hydrastis condenses and Berberis 
aaristata, has both acetylcholine esterase (AChE) inhibiting properties as well 
as monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibiting properties involved in the betterment of 
AD by decreasing the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Like BBR, 
Physostigmine, isolated from the Physostigma venenosum / Calabar bean and 
belongs to the family Leguminosae, and Morphine, isolated from the plant Papaver 
somniferum / Opium poppy or Breadseed poppy, also has a significant impact on 
the management and treatment of AD and PD by reducing both neuroinflammation and 
pro-inflammatory cytokines production. Morphine bineurodegenerative diseases 
with μ-opioid receptor (MOR) in CNS elevate GABA levels in the synaptic cleft of 
the brain and reduces the neurotoxicity via stimulation of MOR. It has been 
discovered that physostigmine improves cognitive function in AD patients and 
reduces α-synuclein expression in PD neural cell lines. Isorhyncophylline (IRN) 
is a Chinese herbal medicine isolated from the plant Uncaria rhyncophylla which 
provides neuroprotective efficiency against neurotoxicity that occurs by amyloid 
β (the main component of amyloid plaques) found in the brain of people with AD.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715230310192240925165925
PMID: 39415572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. ACS Nano. 2024 Oct 29;18(43):29779-29793. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.4c09449. Epub 
2024 Oct 16.

Intranasal Carrier-Free Nanomodulator Addresses Both Symptomatology and Etiology 
of Alzheimer's Disease by Restoring Neuron Plasticity and Reprogramming Lesion 
Microenvironment.

Yang W(1), Shi Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Yang Y(2), Du Y(1), Yang Z(1), Wang X(1), Lei 
T(1), Xu Y(1), Chen Y(1), Tong F(1), Wang Y(1), Huang Q(1), Hu C(2), Gao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Drug-Targeting and Drug Delivery System of the Education 
Ministry, West China School of Pharmacy, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, PR 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 611137, PR 
China.

The unsatisfactory treatment outcome of Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be 
attributed to two primary factors, the intricate pathogenic mechanisms leading 
to restricted treatment effectiveness against single targets and the hindered 
drug accumulation in brain due to blood-brain barrier obstruction. Therefore, we 
developed a carrier-free nanomodulator (NanoDS) through the self-assembly of 
donepezil and simvastatin for direct nose-to-brain delivery. This approach 
facilitated a rapid and efficient traversal through the nasal epithelial 
barrier, enabling subsequent drug release and achieving multiple therapeutic 
effects. Among them, donepezil effectively ameliorated the symptoms of AD and 
restored synaptic plasticity. Simvastatin exerted a neurotrophic effect and 
facilitated the clearance of amyloid-β aggregation. At the same time, NanoDS 
demonstrated effective anti-inflammatory and antioxidative stress effects. This 
therapy for AD is approached from both symptomatic and etiological perspectives. 
In the treatment of FAD4T transgenic mice, it highly improved spatial memory 
impairment and cognitive deficits while restoring the homeostasis of brain 
microenvironment. Collectively, our study presented a paradigm for both 
achieving efficient brain delivery and offering pleiotropic therapies for AD.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.4c09449
PMID: 39415568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Cell Commun Signal. 2024 Oct 17;22(1):501. doi: 10.1186/s12964-024-01868-4.

Illuminating the dark kinome: utilizing multiplex peptide activity arrays to 
functionally annotate understudied kinases.

Hamoud AR(1), Alganem K(1), Hanna S(1), Morran M(1), Henkel N(1), Imami AS(1), 
Ryan W(1), Sahay S(1), Pulvender P(1), Kunch A(1), Arvay TO(1), Meller 
J(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Shukla R(7), O'Donovan SM(8), McCullumsmith R(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences and Psychiatry, University of Toledo College of 
Medicine, Toledo, OH, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, 
OH, USA.
(3)Division of Biomedical Informatics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(4)Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Department of Environmental and 
Public Health Sciences, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and System Biology, College of Medicine, 
University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(6)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of 
Engineering and Applied Sciences, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(7)Department of Zoology and Physiology, University of Wyoming, Laramie, WY, 
USA.
(8)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Limerick, Castletroy, 
Limerick, Ireland.
(9)Department of Neurosciences and Psychiatry, University of Toledo College of 
Medicine, Toledo, OH, USA. robert.mccullumsmith@utoledo.edu.
(10)Neurosciences Institute, ProMedica, Toledo, OH, USA. 
robert.mccullumsmith@utoledo.edu.

Protein kinases are critical components of a myriad biological processes and 
strongly associated with various diseases. While kinase research has been a 
point of focus in biomedical research for several decades, a large portion of 
the kinome is still considered understudied or "dark," because prior research is 
targeted towards a subset of kinases with well-established roles in cellular 
processes. We present an empirical and in-silico hybrid workflow to extend the 
functional knowledge of understudied kinases. Utilizing multiplex peptide 
activity arrays and robust in-silico analyses, we extended the functional 
knowledge of five dark tyrosine kinases (AATK, EPHA6, INSRR, LTK, TNK1) and 
explored their roles in schizophrenia, Alzheimer's dementia (AD), and major 
depressive disorder (MDD). Using this hybrid approach, we identified 195 novel 
kinase-substrate interactions with variable degrees of affinity and linked 
extended functional networks for these kinases to biological processes that are 
impaired in psychiatric and neurological disorders. Biochemical assays and mass 
spectrometry were used to confirm a putative substrate of EPHA6, an understudied 
dark tyrosine kinase. We examined the EPHA6 network and knowledgebase in 
schizophrenia using reporter peptides identified and validated from the 
multi-plex array with high affinity for phosphorylation by EPHA6. Identification 
and confirmation of putative substrates for understudied kinases provides a 
wealth of actionable information for the development of new drug treatments as 
well as exploration of the pathophysiology of disease states using signaling 
network approaches.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12964-024-01868-4
PMCID: PMC11484317
PMID: 39415254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


56. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Oct 16;16(1):229. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01583-9.

Network dynamics-based subtyping of Alzheimer's disease with microglial genetic 
risk factors.

Choi JH(1), Lee J(1), Kang U(1), Chang H(1), Cho KH(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Systems Biology and Bio-inspired Engineering, Department of 
Bio and Brain Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology 
(KAIST), Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea.
(2)Laboratory for Systems Biology and Bio-inspired Engineering, Department of 
Bio and Brain Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology 
(KAIST), Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea. ckh@kaist.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: The potential of microglia as a target for Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
treatment is promising, yet the clinical and pathological diversity within 
microglia, driven by genetic factors, poses a significant challenge. Subtyping 
AD is imperative to enable precise and effective treatment strategies. However, 
existing subtyping methods fail to comprehensively address the intricate 
complexities of AD pathogenesis, particularly concerning genetic risk factors. 
To address this gap, we have employed systems biology approaches for AD 
subtyping and identified potential therapeutic targets.
METHODS: We constructed patient-specific microglial molecular regulatory network 
models by utilizing existing literature and single-cell RNA sequencing data. The 
combination of large-scale computer simulations and dynamic network analysis 
enabled us to subtype AD patients according to their distinct molecular 
regulatory mechanisms. For each identified subtype, we suggested optimal targets 
for effective AD treatment.
RESULTS: To investigate heterogeneity in AD and identify potential therapeutic 
targets, we constructed a microglia molecular regulatory network model. The 
network model incorporated 20 known risk factors and crucial signaling pathways 
associated with microglial functionality, such as inflammation, 
anti-inflammation, phagocytosis, and autophagy. Probabilistic simulations with 
patient-specific genomic data and subsequent dynamics analysis revealed nine 
distinct AD subtypes characterized by core feedback mechanisms involving SPI1, 
CASS4, and MEF2C. Moreover, we identified PICALM, MEF2C, and LAT2 as common 
therapeutic targets among several subtypes. Furthermore, we clarified the 
reasons for the previous contradictory experimental results that suggested both 
the activation and inhibition of AKT or INPP5D could activate AD through dynamic 
analysis. This highlights the multifaceted nature of microglial network 
regulation.
CONCLUSIONS: These results offer a means to classify AD patients by their 
genetic risk factors, clarify inconsistent experimental findings, and advance 
the development of treatments tailored to individual genotypes for AD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01583-9
PMCID: PMC11481771
PMID: 39415193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


57. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2025 Mar;398(3):2275-2292. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-024-03515-8. Epub 2024 Oct 16.

Deciphering the mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective potential of 
kaempferol: a comprehensive investigation.

Chaubey S(1), Singh L(2).

Author information:
(1)University Institute of Pharma Sciences, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
Punjab, India.
(2)University Institute of Pharma Sciences, Chandigarh University, Mohali, 
Punjab, India. lovedeep992s@gmail.com.

Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by neuronal degradation, 
dysfunction, or death within the CNS. Oxidative and inflammatory stress play 
crucial roles in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases. The 
interplay between these stressors and dysregulated cellular signaling pathways 
contributes to neurodegeneration. Downregulation of NRF-2 compromises 
antioxidant defense, exacerbating neuronal damage, while increased TLR-4/MAPK 
and TLR-4/NF-κB signaling promotes neuroinflammation. Excessive ROS production 
by NADPH oxidase leads to oxidative damage and neuronal apoptosis. The 
strategies targeting NRF-2, TLR-4-mediated inflammatory stress, and NADPH 
oxidase activity promise to mitigate neuronal damage and halt the progression of 
the disease. Kaempferol is a flavonoid polyphenol antioxidant found abundantly 
in various fruits and vegetables, including apples, grapes, tomatoes, and 
broccoli. It is widely found in medicinal plants including Equisetum spp., 
Sophora japonica, Ginkgo biloba, and Euphorbia pekinensis (Rupr.). A substantial 
body of in vitro and in vivo evidences have demonstrated the neuroprotective 
potential of kaempferol against neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's 
disease and Parkinson's disease. Kaempferol demonstrates multifaceted potential 
in mitigating neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and oxidative stress in different 
neurodegenerative diseases through the modulation of various pathways including 
NRF-2, NADPH oxidase, TLR-4/MAPK, and TLR-4/NF-κB. This review article was 
developed through a comprehensive analysis and interpretation of research 
published between 2009 and 2024, sourced from multiple scientific databases, 
including PubMed, Scopus, ScienceDirect, and Web of Science. This review aims to 
provide an in-depth overview of the neuroprotective effects of kaempferol, 
focusing on its underlying molecular mechanisms. A total of 24 research evidence 
were included to elucidate the molecular pathways by which kaempferol exerts its 
protective effects against neurodegenerative diseases.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-024-03515-8
PMID: 39414700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Informed consent and patient 
details: The authors declare that the work described does not involve patients 
or volunteers. Competing interest: The authors declare no competing interests. 
Human and animal rights: The authors declare that the work described has not 
involved experimentation on humans or animals.


58. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2024 Dec 1;203:106935. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106935. Epub
 2024 Oct 15.

Preparation, physicochemical characterization, ex vivo, and in vivo evaluations 
of asiatic acid-loaded solid lipid nanoparticles formulated with natural waxes 
for nose-to-brain delivery.

Rojanaratha T(1), Tienthai P(2), Woradulayapinij W(3), Yimsoo T(4), 
Boonkanokwong V(5), Ritthidej GC(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chulalongkorn University, 254 Phayathai Road, Wang Mai, 
Pathum Wan, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Veterinary Science, Chulalongkorn 
University, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.
(3)Thammasat University Research Unit in Mechanisms of Drug Action and Molecular 
Imaging, Drug Discovery and Development Center, Office of Advanced Science and 
Technology, Thammasat University, Pathum Thani 12120, Thailand.
(4)Thammasat University Research Unit in Mechanisms of Drug Action and Molecular 
Imaging, Drug Discovery and Development Center, Office of Advanced Science and 
Technology, Thammasat University, Pathum Thani 12120, Thailand; Laboratory 
Animal Center, Office of Advanced Science and Technology, Thammasat University, 
Pathum Thani 12120, Thailand.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chulalongkorn University, 254 Phayathai Road, Wang Mai, 
Pathum Wan, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. Electronic address: 
veerakiet.b@pharm.chula.ac.th.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chulalongkorn University, 254 Phayathai Road, Wang Mai, 
Pathum Wan, Bangkok 10330, Thailand; Queen Saovabha Memorial Institute, Thai Red 
Cross Society, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

Asiatic acid (AA) has neuroprotective potential for prevention and treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease. Natural waxes with various ratios of Tween 80 and Span 80 
or soybean lecithin were formulated to obtain AA-loaded solid lipid 
nanoparticles (AA-SLN) to improve direct nose to brain transport. Optimal AA-SLN 
had particle size below 200 nm with uniform size distribution and zeta potential 
of nearly -30 mV indicating a low risk of particle aggregation. Formulation with 
rice bran wax, Tween 80, and soybean lecithin (AA-RwS100) showed the highest 
entrapment efficiency and yield of >98 % while in vitro AA release of AA-SLN was 
linearly up to 48 h For ex vivo permeation, confocal laser scanning microscopy 
(CLSM) and histopathological studies on porcine olfactory mucosa (OM) and 
respiratory mucosa (RM), AA-SLN showed significantly higher permeation across OM 
than RM (p < 0.05) up to 6 h and AA-RwS100 also showed the highest amount of 
drug permeated as confirmed by CLSM results. Although AA-SLN showed 
non-significantly lower permeation than AA solution (AA-SOL) (p > 0.05), no 
epithelial and mucosal structure damages were observed in OM treated with 
AA-RwS100 and RM treated with all AA-SLNs indicating safety for nasal 
administration while AA-SOL showed significant damage to both OM and RM. In 
addition, in vivo brain distribution study by fluorescence imaging using 
Rhodamine (R6g) showed higher brain distribution after intranasal administration 
of R6g-loaded solid lipid nanoparticles (R6g-SLN) than R6g solution (R6g-SOL) 
and intravenous administration of R6g-SLN, and R6g-RwS100 also showed the 
highest brain accumulation at 8 h post administration.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106935
PMID: 39414172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest associated with this publication.


59. Transfus Med Rev. 2024 Oct;38(4):150858. doi: 10.1016/j.tmrv.2024.150858.
Epub  2024 Sep 18.

Beta-Amyloid Related Neurodegenerative and Neurovascular Diseases: Potential 
Implications for Transfusion Medicine.

Muir RT(1), Callum JL(2), Yu AYX(3), Kapral MK(4), Swartz RH(3), Black SE(5), 
MacIntosh BJ(6), Fergusson DA(7), Kleinman S(8), Demchuk AD(9), Stys PK(9), 
Smith EE(9), Hill MD(10).

Author information:
(1)Calgary Stroke Program, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada; Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Department 
of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Queen's University, Ontario, 
Canada; Centre for Brain Resilience and Recovery, Hurvitz Brain Sciences 
Research Program Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Centre for Brain Resilience and Recovery, Hurvitz Brain Sciences Research 
Program Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; ICES (formerly 
Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences), Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)ICES (formerly Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences), Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Department of Medicine, General Internal Medicine, University Health 
Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Centre for Brain Resilience and Recovery, Hurvitz Brain Sciences Research 
Program Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Centre for Brain Resilience and Recovery, Hurvitz Brain Sciences Research 
Program Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(7)Clinical Epidemiology Program, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada.
(8)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(9)Calgary Stroke Program, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada; Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(10)Calgary Stroke Program, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada; Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Department 
of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
Electronic address: michael.hill@ucalgary.ca.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a progressive cerebrovascular and 
neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by the aberrant accumulation of 
soluble beta-amyloid isoforms in the small vessel walls of the cerebral and 
cerebellar cortices and the leptomeninges. Vascular beta-amyloid deposition 
increases vulnerability to intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Clinically, CAA can 
be the underlying cause of up to half of spontaneous lobar ICHs and can also 
present with convexity subarachnoid hemorrhage, transient focal neurologic 
episodes and progressive cognitive decline leading to dementia. The majority of 
CAA is sporadic, with increasing prevalence with age and often coexists with 
Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Genetic and iatrogenic etiologies are rare. Cases of 
CAA and AD have been linked to the use of cadaveric pituitary hormone and later 
life iatrogenic CAA has also been described following early-life neurosurgical 
procedures with cadaveric dura grafts. Together these data suggest a capacity of 
beta-amyloid transmissibility. A recent study found that in over 1 million 
transfusion recipients from donors who later developed (i) >1 ICH or (ii) one 
ICH event and dementia, had an elevated risk of developing future ICH. 
Considering prior reports of transfusion associated variant-Creutzfeldt Jakob 
Disease in humans and in vivo evidence in sheep, coupled with emerging data 
supporting beta-amyloid's prion-like properties, raises the question of whether 
CAA could be transmissible by blood transfusion. This would also have 
implications for screening, especially in an era of emerging plasma biomarkers 
of cerebral amyloidosis. Given the public health concerns raised by this 
biologically plausible question, there is a need for future studies with 
well-characterized definitions - and temporal ascertainment - of CAA exposure 
and outcomes to examine whether CAA is transfusion-transmissible, and, if so, 
with what frequency and timing of onset.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tmrv.2024.150858
PMID: 39413667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Ryan T. Muir: No conflicting 
interest to report. Jeannie L. Callum: No conflicting interest to report. Amy 
Y.X Yu: No conflicting interest to report. Moira K. Kapral: No conflicting 
interest to report. Richard H. Swartz: Acknowledges salary support for research 
from Sunnybrook Department of Medicine and the Bastable-Potts Chair in stroke 
research. Sandra E. Black: Reports remuneration for consultation on anti-amyloid 
immunotherapies for Roche, Biogen, Eisai and Eli Lilly. Bradley J. MacIntosh: No 
conflicting interest to report. Dean A. Fergusson: No conflicting interest to 
report. Steven Kleinman: No conflicting interest to report. Andrew D. Demchuk: 
Under Dr. Demchuk's direction his institution has received funding to perform 
core laboratory volumetrics for intracerebral hemorrhage research supported by 
Astra Zeneca, Sense Neuro Diagnostics and SFJ Pharmaceuticals. Dr. Demchuk has 
received honoraria for consulting and for CME lectures from Astra Zeneca 
regarding reversal of anticoagulation in intracerebral hemorrhage. Peter K. 
Stys: No conflicting interest to report. Eric E. Smith: Reports unpaid 
consulting for Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Eisai, and Eli Lilly. Michael D. Hill: 
President, Canadian Neurological Sciences Federation (not-for-profit sector)


60. Phytomedicine. 2024 Dec;135:156152. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156152. Epub
2024  Oct 11.

Pterosin B improves cognitive dysfunction by promoting microglia M1/M2 
polarization through inhibiting Klf5/Parp14 pathway.

Zhang Y(1), Chen JC(2), Zheng JH(3), Cheng YZ(3), Weng WP(3), Zhong RL(4), Sun 
SL(4), Shi YS(5), Pan XD(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, Center for Cognitive 
Neurology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou 
350001, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology and Institute of 
Neuroscience, Fujian Medical University, 88 Jiaotong Road, Fuzhou 350001, China; 
Institute of Clinical Neurology, Fujian Medical University, 29 Xinquan Road, 
Fuzhou 350001, China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical University, 
Nanjing 211198, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, Center for Cognitive 
Neurology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou 
350001, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology and Institute of 
Neuroscience, Fujian Medical University, 88 Jiaotong Road, Fuzhou 350001, China; 
Institute of Clinical Neurology, Fujian Medical University, 29 Xinquan Road, 
Fuzhou 350001, China; Clinical Research Center for Precision Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Neurological Diseases of Fujian Province, Fuzhou 350001, China.
(4)Affiliated Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210028, China; Jiangsu Province 
Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210028, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, Center for Cognitive 
Neurology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou 
350001, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology and Institute of 
Neuroscience, Fujian Medical University, 88 Jiaotong Road, Fuzhou 350001, China; 
Institute of Clinical Neurology, Fujian Medical University, 29 Xinquan Road, 
Fuzhou 350001, China. Electronic address: shiyusheng_imm@163.com.
(6)Department of Neurology, Fujian Institute of Geriatrics, Center for Cognitive 
Neurology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan Road, Fuzhou 
350001, China; Fujian Key Laboratory of Molecular Neurology and Institute of 
Neuroscience, Fujian Medical University, 88 Jiaotong Road, Fuzhou 350001, China; 
Institute of Clinical Neurology, Fujian Medical University, 29 Xinquan Road, 
Fuzhou 350001, China; Clinical Research Center for Precision Diagnosis and 
Treatment of Neurological Diseases of Fujian Province, Fuzhou 350001, China. 
Electronic address: panxd@fjmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Pterosin B (PB) exhibits strong neuroprotective effects in vitro, 
but its therapeutic effect and underlying mechanism on Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
remain elusive.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate the anti-AD effect and mechanism of PB.
STUDY DESIGN: The therapeutic effect and mechanism of PB were investigated in 
APP/PS1 mice and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced BV-2 cells.
METHODS: After 8 weeks of oral administration of PB or donepezil, the cognitive 
function was assessed using behavioral tests. Pathological damage was evaluated 
using histological analysis and immunohistochemical staining. Flow cytometry was 
applied to detect M1/M2 polarization. The expression levels of glycolysis- and 
oxidative phosphorylation-related proteins as well as enzyme activities were 
determined using Western blot and biochemical kits, respectively. The levels of 
inflammatory cytokines and Kruppel-like factor 5 (Klf5) were measured using 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. AD biomarkers in serum were analyzed using 
single-molecular array. RNA sequencing identified the downstream molecules of 
Klf5, and interaction was evaluated using dual-luciferase reporter assay.
RESULTS: Our findings demonstrated that PB effectively ameliorated cognitive 
impairment and reduced pathological damage in APP/PS1 mice. Furthermore, PB 
facilitated the transition of the phenotype of LPS-induced BV-2 cells from M1 to 
M2 by modulating metabolic reprogramming. Additionally, Klf5 had high expression 
levels in the serum of patients with AD, which strongly correlated with 
cognitive performance and AD biomarkers. PB downregulated Klf5 expression both 
in vitro and in vivo. Subsequently, poly-ADP ribosyl polymerase 14 (Parp14) was 
identified as a downstream molecule of Klf5 involved in regulating metabolic 
reprogramming, and PB regulated microglia M1/M2 polarization by inhibiting the 
Klf5/Parp14 pathway.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggested that PB ameliorated cognitive dysfunction in 
AD by modulating microglia M1/M2 polarization via inhibiting Klf5/Parp14 
pathway.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156152
PMID: 39413455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.61. Eur J Med Chem. 2024 Dec 15;280:116966. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116966.
Epub  2024 Oct 15.

Vindeburnol: A natural product-inspired chemical tool for central nervous system 
drug design.

Egorova A(1), Zubkov E(2), Makarov V(3).

Author information:
(1)Federal Research Centre "Fundamentals of Biotechnology" of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences (Research Centre of Biotechnology RAS), 33-2 Leninsky 
Prospect, 119071, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Federal Research Centre "Fundamentals of Biotechnology" of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences (Research Centre of Biotechnology RAS), 33-2 Leninsky 
Prospect, 119071, Moscow, Russia; V. Serbsky National Medical Research Center 
for Psychiatry and Narcology, 23 Kropotkinsky Pereulok, 119034, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Federal Research Centre "Fundamentals of Biotechnology" of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences (Research Centre of Biotechnology RAS), 33-2 Leninsky 
Prospect, 119071, Moscow, Russia. Electronic address: makarov@inbi.ras.ru.

Natural products (NPs) often act as sources of CNS-active agents and provide 
inspiration for the development of synthetic molecules that incorporate their 
best features. Vindeburnol (VIND; (±)-(3α,14β)-20,21-dinoreburnamenin-14-ol; 
developmental codes RU24722 or BC19), based on the core structure of 
eburnamine-vincamine alkaloids, has been extensively investigated for its 
biological activities. This molecule has demonstrated potential therapeutic 
properties in various in vivo models of CNS disorders such as multiple 
sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and depressive-like behavior. Although few 
clinical trials were conducted, further development of vindeburnol was 
abandoned. This review presents synthetic approaches to vindeburnol synthesis as 
well as the most complete discussion of its pharmacological effects. Studies 
involving vindeburnol in animal models of CNS disorders and a few human trials 
have been presented in separate sections. Special attention is placed on 
derivatives and analogs based on the vindeburnol scaffold. The interesting 
pharmacological profile of vindeburnol suggests that this NP-inspired compound 
may serve as a useful tool or structural basis for next-generation molecules in 
CNS drug design and discovery.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2024.116966
PMID: 39413442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


62. Brain. 2025 Apr 3;148(4):1329-1344. doi: 10.1093/brain/awae327.

Default mode network tau predicts future clinical decline in atypical early 
Alzheimer's disease.

Katsumi Y(1)(2)(3), Howe IA(1), Eckbo R(1), Wong B(1)(4), Quimby M(1), Hochberg 
D(1), McGinnis SM(1)(5), Putcha D(1)(4)(5), Wolk DA(6), Touroutoglou A(1)(2)(3), 
Dickerson BC(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Frontotemporal Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(2)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Charlestown, MA 02129, USA.
(3)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Charlestown, MA 02129, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(5)Center for Brain/Mind Medicine, Department of Neurology, Brigham & Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, 
USA.

Update of
    medRxiv. 2024 Apr 19:2024.04.17.24305620. doi: 10.1101/2024.04.17.24305620.

Identifying individuals with early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) at greater 
risk of steeper clinical decline would enable better-informed medical, support 
and life planning decisions. Despite accumulating evidence on the clinical 
prognostic value of tau PET in typical late-onset amnestic AD, its utility in 
predicting clinical decline in individuals with atypical forms of AD remains 
unclear. Across heterogeneous clinical phenotypes, patients with atypical AD 
consistently exhibit abnormal tau accumulation in the posterior nodes of the 
default mode network of the cerebral cortex. This evidence suggests that tau 
burden in this functional network could be a common imaging biomarker for 
prognostication across the syndromic spectrum of AD. Here, we examined the 
relationship between baseline tau PET signal and the rate of subsequent clinical 
decline in a sample of 48 A+/T+/N+ patients with mild cognitive impairment or 
mild dementia due to AD with atypical clinical phenotypes: Posterior Cortical 
Atrophy (n = 16); logopenic variant Primary Progressive Aphasia (n = 15); and 
amnestic syndrome with multi-domain impairment and young age of onset < 65 years 
(n = 17). All patients underwent MRI, tau PET and amyloid PET scans at baseline. 
Each patient's longitudinal clinical decline was assessed by calculating the 
annualized change in the Clinical Dementia Rating Sum-of-Boxes (CDR-SB) scores 
from baseline to follow-up (mean time interval = 14.55 ± 3.97 months). Atypical 
early AD patients showed an increase in CDR-SB by 1.18 ± 1.25 points per year: 
t(47) = 6.56, P < 0.001, Cohen's d = 0.95. Across clinical phenotypes, baseline 
tau in the default mode network was the strongest predictor of clinical decline 
(R2 = 0.30), outperforming a simpler model with baseline clinical impairment and 
demographic variables (R2 = 0.10), tau in other functional networks (R2 = 
0.11-0.26) and the magnitude of cortical atrophy (R2 = 0.20) and amyloid burden 
(R2 = 0.09) in the default mode network. Overall, these findings point to the 
contribution of default mode network tau to predicting the magnitude of clinical 
decline in atypical early AD patients 1 year later. This simple measure could 
aid the development of a personalized prognostic, monitoring and treatment plan, 
which would help clinicians not only predict the natural evolution of the 
disease but also estimate the effect of disease-modifying therapies on slowing 
subsequent clinical decline given the patient's tau burden while still early in 
the disease course.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact 
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other 
permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions 
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awae327
PMCID: PMC11969453
PMID: 39412999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: B.C.D. has been a consultant for Acadia, 
Alector, Arkuda, Biogen, Denali, Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Takeda, Wave 
Lifesciences, and has received royalties from Cambridge University Press, 
Elsevier, Oxford University Press.


63. JMIR Res Protoc. 2024 Oct 16;13:e60395. doi: 10.2196/60395.

Intervention Development for Tailored Education for Aging and Cognitive Health 
(TEACH) for Dementia Prevention in Midlife Adults: Protocol for a Randomized 
Controlled Trial.

Korthauer LE(1)(2), Rosen RK(3)(4), Tremont G(1), Davis JD(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Alpert Medical School of Brown 
University, Providence, RI, United States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, United 
States.
(3)Center for Behavioral & Preventive Medicine, The Miriam Hospital, Providence, 
RI, United States.
(4)School of Public Health, Brown University, Providence, RI, United States.

BACKGROUND: A total of 12 modifiable risk factors account for 40% of dementia 
cases globally, yet population adherence to health behaviors associated with 
these factors is low. Midlife is a critical window for dementia prevention, as 
brain pathology often begins to accumulate years or decades before the onset of 
symptoms. Although multidomain behavioral interventions have been efficacious in 
reducing the risk of cognitive decline, adherence is low. Intrapersonal factors, 
such as health beliefs, are known mediators of the relationship between 
knowledge and health behavior.
OBJECTIVE: In keeping with stage I of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) 
Stage Model for Behavioral Intervention Development, this study will use mixed 
methods to (1) develop an enhanced health education intervention, including an 
explanatory method for communicating information about dementia risk and 
personal health beliefs, and (2) conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial 
(n=20 per intervention arm) over 8 weeks to assess the feasibility of delivering 
the enhanced intervention versus basic health education alone.
METHODS: Phase 1 will involve focus groups and individual qualitative 
interviews. Focus groups will be analyzed using (1) a descriptive framework 
matrix analysis and (2) interpretive data review by the research team. 
Individual qualitative interviews will be coded using applied thematic analysis 
using a phenomenographic approach. Phase 2 will involve a pilot randomized 
controlled trial. Proximal outcomes (measured at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks) 
include the perceived threat of Alzheimer disease, dementia awareness, and 
self-efficacy.
RESULTS: This project was funded in August 2022. Data collection began in 2023 
and is projected to be completed in 2025.
CONCLUSIONS: Study findings will reveal the feasibility of delivering an 8-week 
multidomain health education intervention for primary prevention of dementia in 
midlife and will provide preliminary evidence of mechanisms of change.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT05599425; 
https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05599425.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/60395.

©Laura E Korthauer, Rochelle K Rosen, Geoffrey Tremont, Jennifer D Davis. 
Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols 
(https://www.researchprotocols.org), 16.10.2024.

DOI: 10.2196/60395
PMCID: PMC11525071
PMID: 39412840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


64. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2024 Oct 16;44(1):67. doi: 10.1007/s10571-024-01493-2.

Clinical Insights on Caloric Restriction Mimetics for Mitigating Brain Aging and 
Related Neurodegeneration.

Trisal A(1), Singh AK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, 110 025, India.
(2)Manipal Centre for Biotherapeutics Research, Manipal Academy of Higher 
Education, Karnatak, Manipal, 576 104, India. abhishek.singh@manipal.edu.

Aging, an inevitable physiological process leading to a progressive decline in 
bodily functions, has been an abundantly researched domain with studies 
attempting to slow it down and reduce its debilitating effects. Investigations 
into the cellular and molecular pathways associated with aging have allowed the 
formulation of therapeutic strategies. Of these, caloric restriction (CR) has 
been implicated for its role in promoting healthy aging by modulating key 
molecular targets like Insulin/IGF-1, mTOR, and sirtuins. However, CR requires 
dedication and commitment to a strict regimen which poses a difficulty in 
maintaining consistency. To maneuver around cumbersome diets, Caloric 
Restriction Mimetics (CRMs) have emerged as promising alternatives by mimicking 
the beneficial effects of CR. This review elucidates the molecular foundations 
enabling CRMs like rapamycin, metformin, resveratrol, spermidine, and many more 
to function as suitable anti-aging molecules. Moreover, it explores clinical 
trials (retrieved from the clinicaltrials.gov database) aimed at demonstrating 
the efficacy of CRMs as effective candidates against age-related 
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-024-01493-2
PMCID: PMC11485046
PMID: 39412683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


65. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2024 Oct;33(10):1039-1043. doi: 10.17219/acem/194003.

Survival time in Alzheimer's disease: An overlooked measure of safety and 
efficacy of disease-modifying therapies.

Kurkinen M(1), Daly T(2).

Author information:
(1)NeuroActiva, Inc., San Jose, USA.
(2)Bioethics Program, Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales (FLACSO) 
Argentina, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

It is of vital importance to patients and physicians, as well as administrators 
and drug regulators, that the treatment for a disease has been shown to be safe 
and clinically meaningful in long-term use. Recent literature has highlighted 3 
major categories of arguments for and against modification of the underlying 
disease process in Alzheimer's disease (AD): pathophysiology, biomarkers and 
data from clinical trials. We argue that the Alzheimer's arena is over-reliant 
on theories of disease modification based solely on brain positron emission 
tomography (PET) imaging and blood biomarkers of tau and Aβ peptides. Here, we 
instead focus on a historically-grounded empirical criterion from other fields 
of medicine to overcome the weak interpretations of short Alzheimer's trials: 
survival time (ST). Our analysis has identified 3 key points. First, if 
anti-amyloid therapies are AD-modifying treatments, then we argue that they 
should increase ST more than the standard "symptomatic" care with memantine and 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. Second, we question memantine and 
cholinesterase inhibitors being labeled simply as "symptomatic" Alzheimer's 
drugs since long-term use of them can produce disease modification, that is, 
increase ST. Third, we make a case for memantine or cholinesterase inhibitors 
being used as controls in clinical trials with amyloid-lowering and other drugs, 
and argue against their current under-use in care of Alzheimer's patients.

DOI: 10.17219/acem/194003
PMID: 39412276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Curr Med Chem. 2024 Oct 14. doi: 10.2174/0109298673325023240909101327. Online
 ahead of print.

Synthesis of 2,4-Bis(trifluoromethyl)benzaldehyde Hybrid Thiosemicarbazones as 
Prolyl Oligopeptidase Inhibitors for Neurodegenerative Disorders and their 
In-silico Analysis.

Pasha AR(1)(2), Ullah S(2), Halim SA(2), Khan A(2), Hussain J(3), F EA(4)(5), 
Naseer MM(6), Eltantawy W(7), Al-Harrasi A(2), Shafiq Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemical Sciences, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan-60800, 
Pakistan.
(2)Natural and Medical Sciences Research Center, University of Nizwa, 
Birkat-ul-Mouz 616, Nizwa, Sultanate of Oman.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences and Chemistry, University of Nizwa, 
Nizwa-616, Sultanate of Oma.
(4)Department of Biology, College of Science, King Khalid University, Abha, 
Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Zoology, College of Science, Damanhour University, Egypt.
(6)Department of Chemistry, Quaid-i- Azam University, Islamabad, 45320, 
Pakistan.
(7)Department of Biology, Program of Preparatory Year, Batterjee Medical 
College, Aseer 62451, Saudi Arabia.

INTRODUCTION: Prolyl-specific oligopeptidase (POP), one of the brain's highly 
expressed enzymes, is an important target for the therapy of central nervous 
system disorders, notably autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, Parkinson's, 
Alzheimer's disease, and dementia.
METHOD: The current study was designed to investigate 2,4-bis(trifluoromethyl) 
benzaldehyde- based thiosemicarbazones as POP inhibitors to treat the 
above-mentioned disorders. A variety of techniques, such as nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR), mass spectrometry (MS), and Fourier-transform infrared 
spectroscopy (FTIR), were used for the structural confirmation of synthesized 
compounds. After in-vitro evaluation, all of these compounds were found to be 
prominent inhibitors of the POP enzyme (IC50= 10.14 - 41.73 μM).
RESULT: Compound 3a emerged as the most active compound (IC50 10.14 ± 0.72 μM) 
of the series. The kinetic study of the most active 3a (Ki =13.66 0.0012 μM) 
indicated competitive inhibition of the aforementioned enzyme.
CONCLUSION: Moreover, molecular docking depicted a noticeable role of 
thiosemicarbazide moiety in the binding of these molecules within the active 
site of the POP enzyme.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298673325023240909101327
PMID: 39411949


67. Aging Cell. 2025 Jan;24(1):e14368. doi: 10.1111/acel.14368. Epub 2024 Oct 16.

Ketogenic β-hydroxybutyrate regulates β-hydroxybutyrylation of TCA 
cycle-associated enzymes and attenuates disease-associated pathologies in 
Alzheimer's mice.

Han W(1), Zhang B(1), Zhao W(1), Zhao W(1), He J(1), Qiu X(1), Zhang L(1), Wang 
X(2), Wang Y(2), Lu H(1), Zhang Y(3), Xie Y(1), Geng Y(1), Zhao W(1), Huang 
Q(4), Zhang YW(2), Wang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and Department of Neuroscience, Fujian Key 
Laboratory of Brain Tumors Diagnosis and Precision Treatment, Xiamen Key 
Laboratory of Brain Center, the First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen University, 
School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.
(2)Xiamen Key Laboratory of Brain Center, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Xiamen University, and Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative 
Disease and Aging Research, Institute of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, 
Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian, China.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen 
University, Xiamen, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xiamen 
University, Xiamen, China.

Lysine β-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb) is a post-translational modification that 
has recently been found to regulate protein functions. However, whether and how 
protein Kbhb modification participates in Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains 
unknown. Herein, we carried out 4D label-free β-hydroxybutylation quantitative 
proteomics using brain samples of 8-month-old and 2-month-old APP/PS1 AD model 
mice and wild-type (WT) controls. We identified a series of tricarboxylic acid 
(TCA) cycle-associated enzymes including citrate synthase (CS) and succinate-CoA 
ligase subunit alpha (SUCLG1), whose Kbhb modifications were decreased in 
APP/PS1 mice at pathological stages. Sodium β-hydroxybutyrate (Na-β-OHB) 
treatment markedly increased Kbhb modifications of CS and SUCLG1 and their 
enzymatic activities, leading to elevated ATP production. We further found that 
Kbhb modifications at lysine 393 site in CS and at lysine 81 site in SUCLG1 were 
crucial for their enzymatic activities. Finally, we found that β-OHB levels were 
decreased in the brain of APP/PS1 mice at pathological stages. While ketogenic 
diet not only significantly increased β-OHB levels, Kbhb modifications and 
enzymatic activities of CS and SUCLG1, and ATP production, but also dramatically 
attenuated β-amyloid plaque pathologies and microgliosis in APP/PS1 mice. 
Together, our findings indicate the importance of protein Kbhb modification for 
maintaining normal TCA cycle and ATP production and provide a novel molecular 
mechanism underlying the beneficial effects of ketogenic diet on energy 
metabolism and AD intervention.

© 2024 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.14368
PMCID: PMC11709107
PMID: 39411885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


68. Cureus. 2024 Sep 15;16(9):e69450. doi: 10.7759/cureus.69450. eCollection 2024
 Sep.

A Review on the Role of SNCA Gene in Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Jahabardeen A(1), S N(1), J N(1), V C(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy/Pharmacology, Sri Ramaswamy Memorial (SRM) College of Pharmacy, SRM 
Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, IND.

Gene variations significantly impact the development of neurodegenerative 
disorders, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). 
In AD, which is marked by amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and tau tangles, key genetic 
contributors such as amyloid beta precursor protein (APP), presenilin (PSEN1), 
and presenilin 2 (PSEN2) play a significant role in early-onset familial AD due 
to their influence on Aβ accumulation. PD, marked by dopaminergic neuron 
degeneration and Lewy body formation, is associated with mutations in 
the SNCA gene encoding alpha-synuclein (α-Syn), as well as other genes such as 
leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin-protein 
ligase (PARK2), PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), and protein deglycase (DJ-1). 
Genome-wide association studies have identified genetic variants in 
apolipoprotein (APOE) and SNCA that increase disease risk. Alpha-synuclein, a 
protein involved in synaptic function, misfolds and aggregates into toxic forms 
in neurodegenerative diseases. Aggregates disrupt neuronal functions and 
propagate in a prion-like manner, with SNCA mutations 
exacerbating α-Syn aggregation and disease severity. Alpha-synuclein levels in 
skin, serum, cerebrospinal fluid, and plasma distinguish PD patients from 
healthy patients, demonstrating biomarker potential for diagnosis and 
therapeutic strategies. Furthermore, α-Syn's presence in neural crest-derived 
tissues from PD patients and melanoma patients suggests shared 
pathophysiological features. Ongoing research into SNCA and α-Syn is crucial for 
advancing diagnostics and therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2024, Jahabardeen et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.69450
PMCID: PMC11476641
PMID: 39411638

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


69. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2024 Oct 1;12:1479864. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2024.1479864. 
eCollection 2024.

Unraveling the intricate link between cell death and neuroinflammation using 
Drosophila as a model.

Rai P(1), Bergmann A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Cancer Biology, UMass Chan Medical School, 
Worcester, MA, United States.

Protein aggregation is a common pathological occurrence in neurodegenerative 
diseases. This often leads to neuroinflammation, which exacerbates the 
aggregation and progression of diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. Here, 
we focus on immune responses and neurotoxicity in a Parkinson's disease model in 
Drosophila. Mutations in the SNCA gene that encodes the alpha (α)-Synuclein 
protein have been linked to familial Parkinson's disease, disrupting autophagy 
regulation in neuronal cells and promoting the formation of Lewy bodies, a 
hallmark of Parkinson's pathology. This results in the loss of dopaminergic 
neurons, manifesting as movement disorders. α-Synuclein aggregation triggers 
innate immune responses by activating microglial cells, leading to phagocytic 
activity and the expression of neuroprotective antimicrobial peptides (AMPs). 
However, sustained AMP expression or chronic inflammation resulting from 
inadequate microglial phagocytosis can induce neuronal toxicity and apoptosis, 
leading to severe dopaminergic neuron loss. This review underscores the 
mechanistic connection between immune response pathways and α-Synuclein-mediated 
neurodegeneration using Drosophila models. Furthermore, we extensively explore 
factors influencing neuroinflammation and key immune signaling pathways 
implicated in neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Parkinson's disease. 
Given the limited success of traditional treatments, recent research has focused 
on therapies targeting inflammatory signaling pathways. Some of these approaches 
have shown promising results in animal models and clinical trials. We provide an 
overview of current therapeutic strategies showing potential in treating 
neurodegenerative diseases, offering new avenues for future research and 
treatment development.

Copyright © 2024 Rai and Bergmann.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2024.1479864
PMCID: PMC11474694
PMID: 39411483

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


70. Front Dement. 2024 Oct 1;3:1455619. doi: 10.3389/frdem.2024.1455619.
eCollection  2024.

Differentiation of Alzheimer's disease from other neurodegenerative disorders 
using chemiluminescence immunoassays measuring cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers.

Arendt P(1), Römpler K(1), Brix B(1), Borchardt-Lohölter V(1), Busse M(2), Busse 
S(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Experimental Immunology, Affiliated to EUROIMMUN Medizinische 
Labordiagnostika AG, Lübeck, Germany.
(2)Department for Experimental Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical Faculty, 
Otto-von-Guericke-University of Magdeburg, Magdeburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Medical Faculty University 
Hospital Magdeburg, Otto von Guericke University, Magdeburg, Germany.

Erratum in
    Front Dement. 2025 Feb 17;4:1568275. doi: 10.3389/frdem.2025.1568275.

INTRODUCTION: Prior research identified four neurochemical cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF) biomarkers, Aβ1-42, Aβ1-40, tTau, and pTau(181), as core diagnostic 
markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Determination of AD biomarkers using 
immunoassays can support differential diagnosis of AD vs. several 
neuropsychiatric disorders, which is important because the respective treatment 
regimens differ. Results of biomarker determination can be classified according 
to the Amyloid/Tau/Neurodegeneration (ATN) system into profiles. Less is known 
about the clinical performance of chemiluminescence immunoassays (ChLIA) 
measuring specific biomarkers in CSF samples from patients suffering from 
neuropsychiatric impairments with various underlying causes.
METHODS: Chemiluminescence immunoassays (ChLIAs, EUROIMMUN) were used to 
determine Beta-Amyloid (1-40), Beta-Amyloid (1-42), Total-Tau, and pTau(181) 
concentrations in precharacterized cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 219 AD 
patients, 74 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 220 disease 
control (DC) patients.
RESULTS: 83.0% of AD patients had ATN profiles consistent with AD, whereas 85.5% 
of DC patients and 77.0% of MCI patients had profiles inconsistent with AD. AD 
patients showed significantly lower amyloid ratio Aβ1-42/Aβ1-40 (mean: 0.07) and 
significantly higher concentrations of tTau (mean: 901.6 pg/ml) and pTau(181) 
(mean: 129 pg/ml) compared to DC and MCI patients (all p values < 0.0071).
DISCUSSION: The ChLIAs effectively determined specific biomarkers and can 
support differential diagnostics of AD. Their quality was demonstrated in 
samples from 513 patients with cognitive impairments, representing a realistic 
mix of underlying causes for seeking treatment at a memory clinic.

Copyright © 2024 Arendt, Römpler, Brix, Borchardt-Lohölter, Busse and Busse.

DOI: 10.3389/frdem.2024.1455619
PMCID: PMC11473414
PMID: 39410947

Conflict of interest statement: VB-L, KR, BB, and PA are employees of EUROIMMUN 
Medizinische Labordiagnostika AG, Luebeck, Germany, a company that manufactures 
diagnostic tests and instruments. The remaining authors declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


71. Curr Pharm Des. 2025;31(8):630-644. doi:
10.2174/0113816128318194240918113954.

Decoding the Therapeutic Potential of Cannabis and Cannabinoids in Neurological 
Disorders.

Kale MB(1), Umare MD(1), Wankhede NL(1), Deshmukh R(2), Abbot V(3), Anwer MK(4), 
Taksande BG(1), Upaganlawar AB(5), Umekar MJ(1), Ramniwas S(6), Gulati M(7)(8), 
Arora R(9), Behl T(10).

Author information:
(1)Smt. Kishoritai Bhoyar College of Pharmacy, Kamptee, Nagpur, Maharashtra, 
India.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Research, GLA University, Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.
(3)Chandigarh Pharmacy College, Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Jhanjeri, Mohali, 
Punjab, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al-Kharj 11942, Saudi Arabia.
(5)SNJB's Shriman Sureshdada Jain College of Pharmacy, Neminagar, Chandwad, 
Nashik, Maharashtra, India.
(6)University Centre for Research and Development, University of Biotechnology, 
Chandigarh University, Gharuan, Mohali 140413, Punjab, India.
(7)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, 
Punjab 1444411, India.
(8)ARCCIM, Faculty of Health, University of Technology, Sydney, Ultimo, NSW 
2007, Australia.
(9)Chitkara College of Pharmacy, Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab, India.
(10)Amity School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Amity University, Mohali, Punjab, 
India.

For millennia, Cannabis sativa has served diverse roles, from medicinal 
applications to recreational use. Despite its extensive historical use, only a 
fraction of its components have been explored until recent times. The 
therapeutic potential of Cannabis and its constituents has garnered attention, 
with suggestions for treating various conditions such as Parkinson's disease, 
epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, and other neurological disorders. Recent 
research, particularly on animal experimental models, has unveiled the 
neuroprotective properties of cannabis. This neuroprotective effect is 
orchestrated through numerous G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and the two 
cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2. While the capacity of cannabinoids to 
safeguard neurons is evident, a significant challenge lies in determining the 
optimal cannabinoid receptor agonist and its application in clinical trials. The 
intricate interplay of cannabinoids with the endocannabinoid system, involving 
CB1 and CB2 receptors, underscores the need for precise understanding and 
targeted approaches. Unravelling the molecular intricacies of this interaction 
is vital to harness the therapeutic potential of cannabinoids effectively. As 
the exploration of cannabis components accelerates, there is a growing awareness 
of the need for nuanced strategies in utilizing cannabinoid receptor agonists in 
clinical settings. The evolving landscape of cannabis research presents exciting 
possibilities for developing targeted interventions that capitalize on the 
neuroprotective benefits of cannabinoids while navigating the complexities of 
receptor specificity and clinical applicability.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128318194240918113954
PMID: 39410886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Dec;20(12):8461-8469. doi: 10.1002/alz.14277. Epub
2024  Oct 16.

Association of MIND diet with cognitive decline among Black and White older 
adults.

Agarwal P(1), Barnes LL(2), Dhana K(3), Liu X(3), Zhang Y(3), Beck T(3), 
Cornelis MC(4), Tangney C(5), Rajan KB(3).

Author information:
(1)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Department of Internal Medicine, Department 
of Clinical Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(2)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Rush Institute of Healthy Aging, Department of Internal Medicine, Rush 
University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(5)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, Department of Clinical 
Nutrition, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

INTRODUCTION: We examined the Mediterranean-Dietary Approaches to Stop 
Hypertension Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) diet's association 
with cognitive decline by race among older adults in the Chicago Health and 
Aging Project.
METHODS: Five thousand two hundred fifty-nine participants (73.5 [± 6.0] years, 
62% Black participants, 62% female) completed a food frequency questionnaire, 
and two or more cognitive assessments over 7.8 ± 4.6 years.
RESULTS: Overall, higher MIND diet was associated with slower cognitive decline 
(p for trend = 0.0025). The MIND score (range:0-15) was different between Black 
and White older adults(6.97 vs. 7.12, p = 0.010). Compared to the lowest 
tertile, among White participants, the two highest tertiles (MIND score -7: 
β = 0.0121 [95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.0006, 0.0237]; MIND score -8.5: 
β = 0.0146 [95% CI: 0.0003, 0.0260]) and among Black participants, only the 
highest tertile (MIND score -8.5: β = 0.0088 [95% CI: 0.0003, 0.0172]) had 
association with cognitive decline. Vascular and lifestyle factors attenuated 
the association only for Black older adults.
DISCUSSION: The MIND diet was associated with slower cognitive decline in Black 
and White older adults, but this may vary with other lifestyle and vascular 
factors. Further research is warranted on race-specific cultural diets 
considering other risk factors for cognitive decline.
HIGHLIGHTS: The intake of Mediterranean-Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension 
Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) diet components varies by race. 
The MIND diet may slow cognitive decline in both Black and White older adults. 
This association may vary with other lifestyle and vascular risk factors.

© 2024 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC 
on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.14277
PMCID: PMC11667540
PMID: 39410855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. 
Author disclosures are available in the supporting information.


73. Diagnostics (Basel). 2024 Sep 30;14(19):2189. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics14192189.

Classification of Alzheimer's Disease and Frontotemporal Dementia Using 
Electroencephalography to Quantify Communication between Electrode Pairs.

Ma Y(1)(2), Bland JKS(1), Fujinami T(2).

Author information:
(1)Development Division, FOVE Inc., Tokyo 107-0061, Japan.
(2)School of Knowledge Science, Japan Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, Nomi 923-1292, Japan.

Accurate diagnosis of dementia subtypes is crucial for optimizing treatment 
planning and enhancing caregiving strategies. To date, the accuracy of 
classifying Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) using 
electroencephalogram (EEG) data has been lower than that of distinguishing 
individuals with these diseases from healthy elderly controls (HCs). This 
limitation has impeded the feasibility of a cost-effective differential 
diagnosis for the two subtypes in clinical settings. This study addressed this 
issue by quantifying communication between electrode pairs in EEG data, along 
with demographic information, as features to train machine learning (support 
vector machine) models. Our focus was on refining the feature set specifically 
for AD-FTD classification. Using our initial feature set, we achieved 
classification accuracies of 76.9% for AD-HC, 90.4% for FTD-HC, and 91.5% for 
AD-FTD. Notably, feature importance analyses revealed that the features 
influencing AD-HC classification are unnecessary for distinguishing between AD 
and FTD. Eliminating these unnecessary features improved the classification 
accuracy of AD-FTD to 96.6%. We concluded that communication between electrode 
pairs specifically involved in the neurological pathology of FTD, but not AD, 
enables highly accurate EEG-based AD-FTD classification.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics14192189
PMCID: PMC11475635
PMID: 39410593

Conflict of interest statement: Author Yuan Ma is a senior researcher at FOVE 
Inc. in Tokyo, Japan. Author Jeffrey Keith Spaneas Bland is the CTO at FOVE Inc. 
in Tokyo, Japan. The remaining author declares no conflicts of interest.


74. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 9;25(19):10829. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910829.

Functional Relationships between L1CAM, LC3, ATG12, and Aβ.

Loers G(1), Bork U(1), Schachner M(2).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Molekulare Neurobiologie, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Martinistrasse 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Keck Center for Collaborative 
Neuroscience, Rutgers University, 604 Allison Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.

Abnormal protein accumulations in the brain are linked to aging and the 
pathogenesis of dementia of various types, including Alzheimer's disease. These 
accumulations can be reduced by cell indigenous mechanisms. Among these is 
autophagy, whereby proteins are transferred to lysosomes for degradation. 
Autophagic dysfunction hampers the elimination of pathogenic protein 
aggregations that contribute to cell death. We had observed that the adhesion 
molecule L1 interacts with microtubule-associated protein 1 light-chain 3 (LC3), 
which is needed for autophagy substrate selection. L1 increases cell survival in 
an LC3-dependent manner via its extracellular LC3 interacting region (LIR). L1 
also interacts with Aβ and reduces the Aβ plaque load in an AD model mouse. 
Based on these results, we investigated whether L1 could contribute to autophagy 
of aggregated Aβ and its clearance. We here show that L1 interacts with 
autophagy-related protein 12 (ATG12) via its LIR domain, whereas interaction 
with ubiquitin-binding protein p62/SQSTM1 does not depend on LIR. Aβ, bound to 
L1, is carried to the autophagosome leading to Aβ elimination. Showing that the 
mitophagy-related L1-70 fragment is ubiquitinated, we expect that the p62/SQSTM1 
pathway also contributes to Aβ elimination. We propose that enhancing L1 
functions may contribute to therapy in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910829
PMCID: PMC11476435
PMID: 39409157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


75. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 8;25(19):10797. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910797.

Potential Mechanisms of Tunneling Nanotube Formation and Their Role in Pathology 
Spread in Alzheimer's Disease and Other Proteinopathies.

Kotarba S(1), Kozłowska M(1), Scios M(1), Saramowicz K(1), Barczuk J(1), Granek 
Z(1), Siwecka N(1), Wiese W(1), Golberg M(2), Galita G(1), Sychowski G(1), 
Majsterek I(1), Rozpędek-Kamińska W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry and Biochemistry, Medical University of 
Lodz, 92-215 Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Histology and Embryology, Medical University of Lodz, 90-419 
Lodz, Poland.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia worldwide. The 
etiopathogenesis of this disease remains unknown. Currently, several hypotheses 
attempt to explain its cause, with the most well-studied being the cholinergic, 
beta-amyloid (Aβ), and Tau hypotheses. Lately, there has been increasing 
interest in the role of immunological factors and other proteins such as 
alpha-synuclein (α-syn) and transactive response DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa 
(TDP-43). Recent studies emphasize the role of tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) in the 
spread of pathological proteins within the brains of AD patients. TNTs are small 
membrane protrusions composed of F-actin that connect non-adjacent cells. 
Conditions such as pathogen infections, oxidative stress, inflammation, and 
misfolded protein accumulation lead to the formation of TNTs. These structures 
have been shown to transport pathological proteins such as Aβ, Tau, α-syn, and 
TDP-43 between central nervous system (CNS) cells, as confirmed by in vitro 
studies. Besides their role in spreading pathology, TNTs may also have 
protective functions. Neurons burdened with α-syn can transfer protein 
aggregates to glial cells and receive healthy mitochondria, thereby reducing 
cellular stress associated with α-syn accumulation. Current AD treatments focus 
on alleviating symptoms, and clinical trials with Aβ-lowering drugs have proven 
ineffective. Therefore, intensifying research on TNTs could bring scientists 
closer to a better understanding of AD and the development of effective 
therapies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910797
PMCID: PMC11477428
PMID: 39409126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


76. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 2;25(19):10632. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910632.

Intrathecal Immunoselective Nanopheresis for Alzheimer's Disease: What and How? 
Why and When?

Menendez-Gonzalez M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de 
Oviedo, ES-33006 Oviedo, Spain.
(2)Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Servicio de Neurología, ES-33011 
Oviedo, Spain.
(3)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias (ISPA), 
ES-33011 Oviedo, Spain.

Nanotechnology is transforming therapeutics for brain disorders, especially in 
developing drug delivery systems. Intrathecal immunoselective nanopheresis with 
soluble monoclonal antibodies represents an innovative approach in the realm of 
drug delivery systems for Central Nervous System conditions, especially for 
targeting soluble beta-amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. This review delves into 
the concept of intrathecal immunoselective nanopheresis. It provides an overall 
description of devices to perform this technique while discussing the 
nanotechnology behind its mechanism of action, its potential advantages, and 
clinical implications. By exploring current research and advancements, we aim to 
provide a comprehensive understanding of this novel method, addressing the 
critical questions of what it is, how it works, why it is needed, and when it 
should be applied. Special attention is given to patient selection and the 
optimal timing for therapy initiation in Alzheimer's, coinciding with the peak 
accumulation of amyloid oligomers in the early stages. Potential limitations and 
alternative targets beyond beta-amyloid and future perspectives for 
immunoselective nanopheresis are also described.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910632
PMCID: PMC11476806
PMID: 39408961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision 
to publish the results.


77. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Sep 30;25(19):10536. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910536.

Extraction Condition Optimization, Quantitative Analysis, and Anti-AD 
Bioactivity Evaluation of Acorn Polyphenols from Quercus variabilis, Quercus 
aliena, and Quercus dentata.

Du J(1), Han Z(1), Ran L(1), Zhang T(1), Li J(1), Li H(1).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Food Processing and Safety in Forestry, College of 
Biological Sciences and Technology, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing 100083, 
China.

Erratum in
    Int J Mol Sci. 2025 Feb 26;26(5):2015. doi: 10.3390/ijms26052015.

In the present study, Quercus variabilis (Q. variabilis), Quercus aliena (Q. 
aliena), and Quercus dentata (Q. dentata) acorn kernels were taken as the 
research objects, and the free polyphenols and bound polyphenols in acorn 
kernels were extracted using improved ultrasound-assisted ethanolic and alkaline 
extraction methods, after which the contents of gallic acid, quercetin, azelaic 
acid, ellagic acid, and ferulic acid were quantified by LC-MC/MS. The results 
demonstrated that Q. variabilis and Q. aliena acorns were suitable as raw 
materials to extract ellagic acid, the contents of ferulic acid and bound gallic 
acid in them were different, and Q. aliena acorns were more suitable for the 
research of gallic acid, but not for azelaic acid. Results on APP/PS1 transgenic 
mice verified that five polyphenols significantly suppressed the progression of 
AD. This study provides a theoretical basis for the drug development of acorn 
polyphenols.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910536
PMCID: PMC11476354
PMID: 39408864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We wish to confirm that there are no known 
conflicts of interest associated with this publication and there has been no 
significant financial support for this work that could have influenced its 
outcome.


78. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Sep 29;25(19):10507. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910507.

Determination of Potential Lead Compound from Magnolia officinalis for 
Alzheimer's Disease through Pharmacokinetic Prediction, Molecular Docking, 
Dynamic Simulation, and Experimental Validation.

Youn K(1)(2), Jun M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Dong-A University, Busan 49315, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Center for Food & Bio Innovation, Dong-A University, Busan 49315, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, The Graduate School of Dong-A University, 
Busan 49315, Republic of Korea.

Amyloid β protein (Aβ) deposition has been implicated as the molecular driver of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. The modulation of the formation of 
abnormal aggregates and their post-translational modification is strongly 
suggested as the most effective approach to anti-AD. Beta-site APP-cleaving 
enzyme 1 (BACE1) acts upstream in amyloidogenic processing to generate Aβ, which 
rapidly aggregates alone or in combination with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) to 
form fibrils. Accumulated Aβ promotes BACE1 activation via glycogen synthase 
kinase-3β (GSK-3β) and is post-translationally modified by glutaminyl cyclase 
(QC), resulting in increased neurotoxicity. A novel multi-target inhibitor as a 
potential AD agent was identified using an in silico approach and experimental 
validation. Magnolia officinalis, which showed the best anti-AD activity in our 
preliminary study, was subjected to analysis, and 82 compounds were studied. 
Among 23 compounds with drug-likeness, blood-brain barrier penetration, and 
safety, honokiol emerged as a lead structure for the inhibition of BACE1, AChE, 
QC, and GSK-3β in docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Furthermore, 
honokiol was found to be an excellent multi-target inhibitor of these enzymes 
with an IC50 of 6-90 μM, even when compared to other natural single-target 
inhibitors. Taken together, the present study is the first to demonstrate that 
honokiol acts as a multiple enzyme inhibitor with an excellent pharmacokinetic 
and safety profile which may provide inhibitory effects in broad-range areas 
including the overproduction, aggregation, and post-translational modification 
of Aβ. It also provides insight into novel structural features for the design 
and discovery of multi-target inhibitors for anti-AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910507
PMCID: PMC11477134
PMID: 39408835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflicts of interests.


79. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Sep 26;25(19):10357. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910357.

In Vivo Evaluation of Nose-to-Brain Delivery of Liposomal Donepezil, Memantine, 
and BACE-1 siRNA for Alzheimer's Disease Therapy.

Lee D(1), Shen AM(1), Shah M(1), Garbuzenko OB(1), Minko T(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy, Rutgers, The 
State University of New Jersey, 160 Frelinghuysen Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854, 
USA.
(2)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ 08903, USA.
(3)Environmental and Occupational Health Science Institute, Piscataway, NJ 
08854, USA.

Our study took an innovative approach by evaluating, in vivo, the efficacy of 
intranasal (IN) administration of liposomal formulations of donepezil, 
memantine, and beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme (BACE-1) 
siRNA, and their combination as a "triple-drug therapy" in treating Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Female APP/PS1 homozygous, transgenic mice were used as an AD 
model. The spatial short-term memory of the APP/PS1 mice was evaluated by a 
Y-maze behavioral test. IN-administered formulations demonstrated better 
short-term memory recovery than oral administration. Triple-drug therapy induced 
short-term memory recovery and lowered beta-amyloid (Aβ) 40 and 42 peptide 
levels and BACE-1 mRNA expression. Additionally, inflammatory cytokine mRNA 
expression was downregulated. This innovative approach opens new possibilities 
for Alzheimer's disease treatment and nose-to-brain delivery.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910357
PMCID: PMC11476875
PMID: 39408684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


80. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Sep 24;25(19):10294. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910294.

Melatonin Supplementation Alleviates Impaired Spatial Memory by Influencing 
Aβ(1-42) Metabolism via γ-Secretase in the icvAβ(1-42) Rat Model with 
Pinealectomy.

Georgieva I(1), Tchekalarova J(2), Nenchovska Z(2), Kortenska L(2), Tzoneva 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biophysics and Biomedical Engineering, Bulgarian Academy of 
Sciences, Acad. G. Bonchev Street, Block 21, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(2)Institute of Neurobiology, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Acad. G. Bonchev 
Street, Block 23, 1113 Sofia, Bulgaria.

In the search for Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapies, most animal models focus 
on familial AD, which accounts for a small fraction of cases. The majority of AD 
cases arise from stress factors, such as oxidative stress, leading to 
neurological changes (sporadic AD). Early in AD progression, dysfunction in 
γ-secretase causes the formation of insoluble Aβ1-42 peptides, which aggregate 
into senile plaques, triggering neurodegeneration, cognitive decline, and 
circadian rhythm disturbances. To better model sporadic AD, we used a new AD rat 
model induced by intracerebroventricular administration of Aβ1-42 oligomers 
(icvAβ1-42) combined with melatonin deficiency via pinealectomy (pin). We 
validated this model by assessing spatial memory using the radial arm maze test 
and measuring Aβ1-42 and γ-secretase levels in the frontal cortex and 
hippocampus with ELISA. The icvAβ1-42 + pin model experienced impaired spatial 
memory and increased Aβ1-42 and γ-secretase levels in the frontal cortex and 
hippocampus, effects not seen with either icvAβ1-42 or the pin alone. Chronic 
melatonin treatment reversed memory deficits and reduced Aβ1-42 and γ-secretase 
levels in both structures. Our findings suggest that our icvAβ1-42 + pin model 
is extremely valuable for future AD research.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910294
PMCID: PMC11476416
PMID: 39408624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


81. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Sep 24;25(19):10244. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910244.

The Potential Related Genes and Mechanisms Involved in Improving the Treadmill 
Exercise Ability of APP/PS1 Mice.

Zhao Z(1), Wu X(1), Wu W(1), Tang Y(1), Meng X(1), Peng M(1), Tang C(1), Zheng 
L(1), Liu W(1).

Author information:
(1)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Physical Fitness and Sports 
Rehabilitation, Hunan Normal University, Changsha 410012, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) causes a decline in skeletal muscle function, which can 
further exacerbate the cognitive dysfunction of patients with AD. It has been 
widely established that exercise improves AD brain pathology, but the role of 
skeletal muscle in AD is still poorly understood. In this study, we investigated 
the effects of treadmill exercise on the exercise ability of APP/PS1 transgenic 
AD mice and explored potential gene expression changes in their skeletal muscle. 
The APP/PS1 mice were subjected to a treadmill exercise for 12 weeks, followed 
by the Morris water maze and the open field test. After behavioral experiments, 
the changes in morphology, area, collagen fiber deposition, and ultrastructure 
of the skeletal muscle were determined; the balance of skeletal muscle protein 
synthesis and decomposition was analyzed; and changes in gene expression were 
investigated using RNA-Seq. We found that this exercise strategy can promote the 
learning and memory abilities of AD mice, reduce their anxiety-like behavior, 
improve their exercise ability, alleviate skeletal muscle atrophy, and optimize 
the microstructure. It can also enhance skeletal muscle protein synthesis and 
decomposition and improve several signaling pathways, such as the JAK-STAT, Wnt, 
and NOD-like receptors while decreasing calcium, cAMP, cGMP-PKG, and other 
signaling pathways. Six KEGG enrichment signaling pathways were downregulated 
and five signaling pathways were upregulated in the AD mice compared with 
wild-type mice, and these pathways were precisely reversed after the treadmill 
exercise. The expression of transcription factors such as Fosb and Egr1 in the 
skeletal muscle of AD mice decreased, followed by a decrease in the regulated 
target genes Socs1, Srrm4, and Il1b, a trend that was reversed following the 
exercise intervention. After exercise, AD mice exhibited a similar gene 
expression to that of wild-type mice, indicating enhanced exercise ability. The 
potential regulatory pathways and related genes identified in this study provide 
valuable insights for the clinical management and treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910244
PMCID: PMC11476258
PMID: 39408581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


82. Nutrients. 2024 Oct 9;16(19):3421. doi: 10.3390/nu16193421.

Mediterranean Diet and Lifestyle in Persons with Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's 
Disease.

Dominguez LJ(1), Veronese N(2), Parisi A(2), Seminara F(2), Vernuccio L(2), 
Catanese G(2), Barbagallo M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University Kore of Enna, 94100 Enna, 
Italy.
(2)Geriatric Unit, Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, University of 
Palermo, 90144 Palermo, Italy.

Due to the continuous aging of the population and consequent increase in 
dementia, focus on its prevention is of growing importance for public health. 
Since effective pharmacological treatments are not yet available, other 
determinants of cognitive decline have become fundamental. Several studies have 
indicated that the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet) is associated with reduced 
incident cognitive decline and dementia, but few studies have been conducted in 
persons already diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We age-matched 73 
patients with mild-moderate AD with 73 controls (mean age for the whole group = 
76.5 ± 6.5; 67.5% women). The cases had a significantly lower adherence to the 
MedDiet and lower physical activity vs. controls, where only one participant 
(1.4%) had a high adherence to the MedDiet among cases compared to 5.5% among 
controls, while 52.5% of the cases had a moderate adherence to the MedDiet vs. 
82.2% in controls. In multivariate analysis, only the presence of AD was 
significantly associated with a lower adherence to the MedDiet vs. controls. 
Other factors examined (gender, age, physical activity level, multimorbidity, 
and polypharmacy) were not significantly associated with adherence to the 
MedDiet. Thus, AD patients had a low adherence to the MedDiet and very low 
physical activity. Public health strategies aimed at promoting the Mediterranean 
diet and physical activity for older people should be a priority.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16193421
PMCID: PMC11478982
PMID: 39408386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


83. Nutrients. 2024 Oct 4;16(19):3378. doi: 10.3390/nu16193378.

Potential Neuroprotective Effects of Alpinia officinarum Hance (Galangal): A 
Review.

Abd Rahman IZ(1), Adam SH(2), Hamid AA(1), Mokhtar MH(1), Mustafar R(3), Kashim 
MIAM(4)(5), Febriza A(6), Mansor NI(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan 
Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur 56000, Malaysia.
(2)Preclinical Department, Faculty of Medicine & Defence Health, Universiti 
Pertahanan Nasional Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 
Kuala Lumpur 56000, Malaysia.
(4)Centre of Shariah, Faculty of Islamic Studies, Universiti Kebangsaan 
Malaysia, Bangi 43600, Malaysia.
(5)Institute of Islam Hadhari, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi 43600, 
Malaysia.
(6)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universitas Muhammadiyah Makassar, 
Makassar 90221, South Sulawesi, Indonesia.
(7)Department of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 
Kuala Lumpur 56000, Malaysia.

Background/Objectives: This review aims to provide a detailed understanding of 
the current evidence on Alpinia officinarum Hance (A. officinarum) and its 
potential therapeutic role in central nervous system (CNS) disorders. CNS 
disorders encompass a wide range of disorders affecting the brain and spinal 
cord, leading to various neurological, cognitive and psychiatric impairments. In 
recent years, natural products have emerged as potential neuroprotective agents 
for the treatment of CNS disorders due to their outstanding bioactivity and 
favourable safety profile. One such plant is A. officinarum, also known as 
lesser galangal, a perennial herb from the Zingiberaceae family. Its 
phytochemical compounds such as flavonoids and phenols have been documented to 
have a powerful antioxidants effect, capable of scavenging free radicals and 
preventing oxidative damage. Methods: In this review, we critically evaluate the 
in vitro and in vivo studies and examine the mechanisms by which A. officinarum 
exerts its neuroprotective effect. Results: Several studies have confirmed that 
A. officinarum exerts its neuroprotective effects by reducing oxidative stress 
and cell apoptosis, promoting neurite outgrowth, and modulating neurotransmitter 
levels and signalling pathways. Conclusions: Although previous studies have 
shown promising results in various models of neurological disorders, the 
underlying mechanisms of A. officinarum in Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's 
disease (PD) are still poorly understood. Further studies on brain tissue and 
cognitive and motor functions in animal models of AD and PD are needed to 
validate the results observed in in vitro studies. In addition, further clinical 
studies are needed to confirm the safety and efficacy of A. officinarum in CNS 
disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16193378
PMCID: PMC11478918
PMID: 39408345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


84. Nutrients. 2024 Sep 29;16(19):3307. doi: 10.3390/nu16193307.

An Overview of Apple Varieties and the Importance of Apple Consumption in the 
Prevention of Non-Communicable Diseases-A Narrative Review.

Mierczak K(1), Garus-Pakowska A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Epidemiology, Medical University of Lodz, 90-752 
Lodz, Poland.

Non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancers, diabetes, 
and asthma are increasingly common due to factors like industrialization, 
urbanization, fast-paced life, stress, sedentary lifestyle, and unbalanced diet 
in the 21st century. These chronic conditions are a global epidemic, being among 
the top causes of death worldwide. Preventing these diseases through a 
nutritious diet is crucial, and scientific studies suggest that appropriate 
fruit intake, particularly apples, can lower the risk of various health issues. 
Apples, rich in bioactive compounds, vitamins, minerals, and dietary fiber, 
offer numerous health benefits. Regular consumption of apples helps reduce the 
risk of atherosclerosis, coronary artery disease, heart attacks, and diabetes, 
and also provides anti-asthmatic and anti-allergic effects. Apples aid in 
detoxification, improve digestion, enhance skin, hair, and nail health, and 
offer protection against cancers, Alzheimer's, and Parkinson's disease. Apples 
have been a dietary staple for centuries, consumed in various forms like juices, 
sauces, and ciders. The reviewed article emphasizes the health benefits of 
apples, highlighting their role in preventing civilization diseases. It also 
discusses the characteristics of common apple varieties and the impact of 
thermal processing on their nutritional content.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16193307
PMCID: PMC11478947
PMID: 39408274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


85. J Clin Med. 2024 Oct 8;13(19):5982. doi: 10.3390/jcm13195982.

Quality-of-Life- and Cognitive-Oriented Rehabilitation Program through NeuronUP 
in Older People with Alzheimer's Disease: A Randomized Clinical Trial.

Fabara-Rodríguez AC(1), García-Bravo C(2)(3), García-Bravo S(3)(4), 
Quirosa-Galán I(5), Rodríguez-Pérez MP(4), Pérez-Corrales J(2), Fernández-Gómez 
G(5)(6), Donovan M(7), Huertas-Hoyas E(4).

Author information:
(1)Geriasa Brunete, Nursing Home, 28690 Brunete, Spain.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Research Group of Humanities and Qualitative Research in Health 
Science (Hum&QRinHS), 28922 Alcorcón, Spain.
(3)Physiocare Madrid, Physiotherapy Clinic, 28026 Madrid, Spain.
(4)Department of Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Physical Medicine and 
Rehabilitation, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, 28922 Alcorcón, Spain.
(5)PhD Program in Health Sciences, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, 28922 Alcorcón, 
Spain.
(6)TANGRAM, Center for Comprehensive Care for Children and Adolescents, 28032 
Madrid, Spain.
(7)Independent Researcher, 13409 Berlin, Germany.

(1) Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder marked by cognitive decline and functional impairment. The NeuronUP 
platform is a computer program whose main function is cognitive stimulation 
through three types of activities that change so that the user does not manage 
to learn it. This program provides opportunities to work on various domains, 
including activities of daily living (ADLs), social skills, and cognitive 
functions. The main objective of this randomized clinical trial was to assess 
the impact of integrating the NeuronUP platform with conventional occupational 
therapy to enhance or maintain cognitive, perceptual, and quality of life (QoL) 
abilities in people with AD compared to a control group. (2) Methods: A 
randomized, single-blind clinical trial was conducted. The sample was randomized 
using a software program, OxMar, which allowed the separation of the sample into 
a control group (CG) that received their conventional occupational therapy 
sessions and an experimental group (EG) that received therapy with NeuronUP, in 
addition to their conventional occupational therapy sessions. An eighteen-week 
intervention was conducted. (3) Results: The study included 20 participants, and 
significant differences were observed in most variables analyzed, indicating 
improvements after the intervention, particularly in measures of QoL and 
cognitive status. (4) Conclusions: Our findings demonstrate that an 
eighteen-week experimental protocol, incorporating the NeuronUP platform 
alongside conventional occupational therapy, led to improvements in cognitive 
status and QoL in older adults with AD. Thus, integrating the NeuronUP platform 
as a complementary tool to occupational therapy can be a valuable resource for 
enhancing the QoL of individuals with AD. However, due to the small sample size, 
further studies are needed to corroborate these findings.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm13195982
PMCID: PMC11477658
PMID: 39408042

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


86. J Clin Med. 2024 Sep 24;13(19):5682. doi: 10.3390/jcm13195682.

Assessing Gender Differences in Neuropathic Pain Management: Findings from a 
Real-Life Clinical Cross-Sectional Observational Study.

Marcianò G(1), Siniscalchi A(2), Di Gennaro G(3), Rania V(1), Vocca C(1), 
Palleria C(1)(4), Catarisano L(1), Muraca L(5), Citraro R(1)(3)(4), Evangelista 
M(6), De Sarro G(1)(3)(4), D'Agostino B(7), Abrego-Guandique DM(8), Cione E(8), 
Morlion B(9)(10), Gallelli L(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Operative Unit of Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacovigilance, Renato 
Dulbecco University Hospital, Viale Europa, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.
(2)Department of Neurology and Stroke Unit, Annunziata Hospital of Cosenza, Via 
Della Repubblica, 87100 Cosenza, Italy.
(3)Department of Health Science, Magna Graecia University, Viale Europa, 88100 
Catanzaro, Italy.
(4)Research Center FAS@UMG, Department of Health Science, Magna Graecia 
University, Viale Europa, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.
(5)Department of Primary Care, ASP Catanzaro, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.
(6)Department of Anesthesia, Resuscitation and Pain Therapy, Sacred Heart 
Catholic University, 00100 Rome, Italy.
(7)Department of Environmental Biological and Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Technologies, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Viale Abramo Lincoln, 
5, 81100 Caserta, Italy.
(8)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, University of 
Calabria, 87036 Rende, Italy.
(9)The Leuven Centre for Algology and Pain Management, University Hospitals 
Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
(10)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, Section Anaesthesiology and Algology, 
KU Leuven-University of Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.

Introduction: Neuropathic pain is defined as pain induced by a lesion or disease 
of the somatosensory nervous system. Pharmacological and non-pharmacological 
treatments are frequently employed. In the current clinical investigation, we 
assessed the effects of sex on the safety and effectiveness of medications used 
to treat neuropathic pain. Methods: We conducted a prospective analysis between 
1 February 2021 and 20 April 2024, involving patients with neuropathic pain 
referred to the Ambulatory of Pain Medicine of "Renato Dulbecco" University 
Hospital in Catanzaro (Calabria, Italy). Patients over 18 years old with signs 
of neuropathic pain (Douleur Neuropathique en 4 questionnaire ≥ 4) were 
included. Exclusion criteria comprised patients with Alzheimer's disease; 
patients with nociplastic or nociceptive pain; and patients with neoplasms. 
Patients with fewer than two accesses to ambulatory care were excluded, as were 
those who did not sign the informed consent. Clinical data were collected from 
each enrolled patient and subsequently analyzed, considering clinical outcomes. 
Sex and gender differences in efficacy were estimated using multivariate linear 
modeling and propensity-score matching. Results: During the study, 531 patients 
were screened, and 174 were enrolled (33.5%, mean age 61.5 ± 13.1; 64 males and 
110 females, mean age 60.6 ± 13.4 and 61.96 ± 13.0) in accordance with the 
inclusion and exclusion criteria. Only minor differences in treatment 
prescription were observed based on age, body mass index, and comorbidities. 
Smoking, sex, educational level, and body mass index did not induce a 
significant change in pain perception. Males required slightly higher, though 
not significantly, doses of drugs for pain control than females. The treatment 
was not significantly more effective for females than for males. Females did not 
exhibit a significantly lower number of adverse drug reactions compared to 
males. Conclusions: The current study found that there are no appreciable 
differences between the sexes when it comes to the treatment of neuropathic 
pain.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm13195682
PMCID: PMC11476643
PMID: 39407742

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


87. Molecules. 2024 Oct 9;29(19):4780. doi: 10.3390/molecules29194780.

Exploring the Benzazoles Derivatives as Pharmacophores for AChE, BACE1, and as 
Anti-Aβ Aggregation to Find Multitarget Compounds against Alzheimer's Disease.

Rosales Hernández MC(1), Olvera-Valdez M(2)(3), Velazquez Toledano J(1), 
Mendieta Wejebe JE(1), Fragoso Morales LG(1), Cruz A(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Biofísica y Biocatálisis, Sección de Estudios de Posgrado e 
Investigación, Escuela Superior de Medicina, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, 
Plan de San Luis y Salvador Díaz Mirón s/n, Casco de Santo Tomás, Miguel 
Hidalgo, Ciudad de México 11340, Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Nanomateriales Sustentables, Sección de Estudios de Posgrado e 
Investigación, Escuela Superior de Ingeniería Química e Industrias Extractivas, 
Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Av. Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Lindavista, 
Gustavo A. Madero, Ciudad de México 07700, Mexico.
(3)Laboratorio de Investigación en Química Orgánica y Supramolecular, Unidad 
Profesional Interdisciplinaria de Biotecnología, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, 
Av. Acueducto s/n, Barrio la Laguna Ticomán, Gustavo A. Madero, Ciudad de México 
07340, Mexico.

Despite the great effort that has gone into developing new molecules as 
multitarget compounds to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD), none of these have been 
approved to treat this disease. Therefore, it will be interesting to determine 
whether benzazoles such as benzimidazole, benzoxazole, and benzothiazole, 
employed as pharmacophores, could act as multitarget drugs. AD is a 
multifactorial disease in which several pharmacological targets have been 
identified-some are involved with amyloid beta (Aβ) production, such as beta 
secretase (BACE1) and beta amyloid aggregation, while others are involved with 
the cholinergic system as acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butirylcholinesterase 
(BChE) and nicotinic and muscarinic receptors, as well as the 
hyperphosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein (tau). In this review, we 
describe the in silico and in vitro evaluation of benzazoles on three important 
targets in AD: AChE, BACE1, and Aβ. Benzothiazoles and benzimidazoles could be 
the best benzazoles to act as multitarget drugs for AD because they have been 
widely evaluated as AChE inhibitors, forming π-π interactions with W286, W86, 
Y72, and F338, as well as in the AChE gorge and catalytic site. In addition, the 
sulfur atom from benzothiazol interacts with S286 and the aromatic ring from 
W84, with these compounds having an IC50 value in the μM range. Also, 
benzimidazoles and benzothiazoles can inhibit Aβ aggregation. However, even 
though benzazoles have not been widely evaluated on BACE1, benzimidazoles 
evaluated in vitro showed an IC50 value in the nM range. Therefore, important 
chemical modifications could be considered to improve multitarget benzazoles' 
activity, such as substitutions in the aromatic ring with electron withdrawal at 
position five, or a linker 3 or 4 carbons in length, which would allow for 
better interaction with targets.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules29194780
PMCID: PMC11477595
PMID: 39407708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


88. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2024 Oct 15;16(1):224. doi: 10.1186/s13195-024-01579-5.

Perceptions about dementia clinical trials among underrepresented populations: a 
nationally representative survey of U.S. dementia caregivers.

Leggins B(1), Hart DM(2), Jackson AJ(2), Levenson RW(3), Windon CC(2), Merrilees 
J(2), Chiong W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA. brandonleggins5@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 
USA.

Update of
    Res Sq. 2024 Jun 14:rs.3.rs-4492550. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-4492550/v1.

BACKGROUND: The research community has historically failed to enroll diverse 
groups of participants in dementia clinical trials. A unique aspect of dementia 
care research is the requirement of a study partner, who can attest to the care 
recipient's clinical and functional capacity. The aim of this study is to assess 
racial and ethnic differences and the importance of various trial considerations 
among dementia caregivers, in their decision to participate in clinical research 
as study partners.
METHOD: We embedded a vignette about a hypothetical dementia clinical trial in a 
nationally representative survey of U.S. dementia caregivers, oversampling 
non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic caregivers. Dementia caregivers were asked about 
their willingness to participate in the trial with their care recipient and 
rated the importance of nine considerations in hypothetical decisions to 
participate. Caregiver demographic characteristics were analyzed as predictors 
of trial participation in a base demographic model. In a second reasons model 
caregiver demographic characteristics and the rated importance of the nine 
considerations were separately analyzed as predictors; both models used 
survey-weighted logistic regression.
RESULT: The sample consisted of 610 dementia caregivers, including 156 
non-Hispanic Black and 122 Hispanic caregiver participants. In the base 
demographic model, hypothetical trial participation was negatively associated 
with older caregiver age (OR (odds ratio) = 0.72, p = < 0.001). In the reasons 
model, the rated importance of a social responsibility to help others by 
participating in research was significantly associated with participation 
(OR = 1.56, p = 0.049), while the importance of the possibility of the care 
recipient experiencing serious side effects was negatively associated with 
participation (OR = 0.51, p = 0.003). In both models there was no significant 
difference in hypothetical participation between non-Hispanic Black and 
non-Hispanic White caregivers, or between Hispanic and non-Hispanic White 
caregivers.
CONCLUSION: Hispanic and non-Hispanic Black dementia caregivers were not less 
likely than non-Hispanic White dementia caregivers to participate in a 
hypothetical dementia clinical trial. Our study suggests that failures to 
recruit diverse populations in dementia clinical research are not attributable 
to less willingness among members of underrepresented groups but may instead 
reflect structural barriers and historic exclusion from trial participation.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13195-024-01579-5
PMCID: PMC11476697
PMID: 39407319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CCW has received funding previously from the 
Alzheimer’s Association and the National Institutes of Health (NIA R35 AG072362, 
AACSFD-21-872476). He has received honorariums from the American Academy of 
Neurology, the Kinetix Group, and LCN. All other authors declare that they have 
no competing interests.


89. J Neuroinflammation. 2024 Oct 15;21(1):261. doi: 10.1186/s12974-024-03254-w.

Glutamine metabolism modulates microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activity through 
mitophagy in Alzheimer's disease.

Zhang Z(1)(2), Li M(1), Li X(1), Feng Z(1), Luo G(1), Wang Y(1), Gao X(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing, 102488, China.
(2)Institute of Pharmacy, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan, 250355, China.
(3)School of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing, 102488, China. gaoxiaoyan@bucm.edu.cn.

The NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome in microglia is 
intimately linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although 
NLRP3 inflammasome activity is regulated by cellular metabolism, the underlying 
mechanism remains elusive. Here, we found that under the pathological conditions 
of AD, the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome in microglia is accompanied by 
increased glutamine metabolism. Suppression of glutaminase, the rate limiting 
enzyme in glutamine metabolism, attenuated the NLRP3 inflammasome activation 
both in the microglia of AD mice and cultured inflammatory microglia. 
Mechanistically, inhibiting glutaminase blocked the anaplerotic flux of 
glutamine to the tricarboxylic acid cycle and amino acid synthesis, 
down-regulated mTORC1 signaling by phosphorylating AMPK, which stimulated 
mitophagy and limited the accumulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species, 
ultimately prevented the activation of NLRP3 inflammasomes in activated 
microglia during AD. Taken together, our findings suggest that glutamine 
metabolism regulates the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome through mitophagy in 
microglia, thus providing a potential therapeutic target for AD treatment.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-024-03254-w
PMCID: PMC11481753
PMID: 39407211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


90. Nat Neurosci. 2024 Dec;27(12):2521-2537. doi: 10.1038/s41593-024-01764-7.
Epub  2024 Oct 15.

A cross-disease resource of living human microglia identifies disease-enriched 
subsets and tool compounds recapitulating microglial states.

Tuddenham JF(#)(1)(2)(3), Taga M(#)(1)(4), Haage V(#)(1), Marshe VS(1), Roostaei 
T(1), White C(1), Lee AJ(1), Fujita M(1), Khairallah A(1), Zhang Y(1), Green 
G(5), Hyman B(6), Frosch M(7), Hopp S(8)(9), Beach TG(10), Serrano GE(10), 
Corboy J(11), Habib N(5), Klein HU(1)(4), Soni RK(12), Teich AF(4)(13)(14), 
Hickman RA(15), Alcalay RN(14)(16), Shneider N(14)(17), Schneider J(18), Sims 
PA(2)(19), Bennett DA(18), Olah M(#)(1), Menon V(#)(1), De Jager PL(#)(20).

Author information:
(1)Center for Translational & Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Systems Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(3)Medical Scientist Training Program, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Edmond & Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.
(6)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Neuropathology Service, C.S. Kubik Laboratory for Neuropathology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(9)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's and Neurodegenerative Diseases, UT 
Health San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(10)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Sun City, AZ, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, University of Colorado, and Rocky Mountain Multiple 
Sclerosis Center at the University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, USA.
(12)Proteomics and Macromolecular Crystallography Shared Resource, Herbert 
Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(15)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(16)Movement Disorders Division, Neurological Institute, Tel Aviv Sourasky 
Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(17)Eleanor and Lou Gehrig ALS Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(18)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL, USA.
(19)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University 
Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(20)Center for Translational & Computational Neuroimmunology, Department of 
Neurology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. 
pld2115@cumc.columbia.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Human microglia play a pivotal role in neurological diseases, but we still have 
an incomplete understanding of microglial heterogeneity, which limits the 
development of targeted therapies directly modulating their state or function. 
Here, we use single-cell RNA sequencing to profile 215,680 live human microglia 
from 74 donors across diverse neurological diseases and CNS regions. We observe 
a central divide between oxidative and heterocyclic metabolism and identify 
microglial subsets associated with antigen presentation, motility and 
proliferation. Specific subsets are enriched in susceptibility genes for 
neurodegenerative diseases or the disease-associated microglial signature. We 
validate subtypes in situ with an RNAscope-immunofluorescence pipeline and 
high-dimensional MERFISH. We also leverage our dataset as a classification 
resource, finding that induced pluripotent stem cell model systems capture 
substantial in vivo heterogeneity. Finally, we identify and validate compounds 
that recapitulate certain subtypes in vitro, including camptothecin, which 
downregulates the signature of disease-enriched subtypes and upregulates a 
signature previously associated with Alzheimer's disease.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-024-01764-7
PMCID: PMC12094270
PMID: 39406950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: R.N.A. is funded by the 
NIH, DoD, the Parkinson’s Foundation and the Michael. J. Fox Foundation. R.N.A. 
received consultation fees from Avrobio, Caraway, GSK, Merck, Ono Therapeutics 
and Genzyme/Sanofi. P.L.D. has served as a consultant for Biogen, Merck-Serono 
and PureTech. All other authors declare no competing interests.


91. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2024 Dec 1;594:112385. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2024.112385.
Epub  2024 Oct 13.

The impact of acyl-CoA:cholesterol transferase (ACAT) inhibitors on biophysical 
membrane properties depends on membrane lipid composition.

To H(1), Reinholdt P(2), Bashawat M(1), Luck M(1), Lauritsen L(3), Akkerman 
V(3), Kroiss M(4), Wüstner D(3), Kongsted J(2), Müller P(5), Scheidt HA(6).

Author information:
(1)Humboldt University Berlin, Department of Biology, Invalidenstr. 42, 10115, 
Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Physics, Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Southern 
Denmark, DK-5230, Odense M, Denmark.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Southern 
Denmark, DK-5230, Odense M, Denmark.
(4)LMU University Hospital, LMU Munich, Department of Internal Medicine IV, 
Ziemssenstr. 5, 80336, München, Germany.
(5)Humboldt University Berlin, Department of Biology, Invalidenstr. 42, 10115, 
Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: peter.mueller.3@rz.hu-berlin.de.
(6)Leipzig University, Institute for Medical Physics and Biophysics, Härtelstr. 
16-18, 04107, Leipzig, Germany. Electronic address: 
holger.scheidt@medizin.uni-leipzig.de.

Acyl-coenzyme A: cholesterol acyltransferases are enzymes which are involved in 
the homeostasis of cholesterol. Impaired enzyme activity is associated with the 
occurrence of various diseases like Alzheimer's disease, atherosclerosis, and 
cancers. At present, mitotane is the only inhibitor of this class of enzymes in 
clinical use for the treatment of adrenocortical carcinoma but associated with 
common and severe adverse effects. The therapeutic effect of mitotane depends on 
its interaction with cellular membranes. The search for less toxic but equally 
effective compounds is hampered by an incomplete understanding of these 
biophysical properties. In the present study, the interaction of the three ACAT 
inhibitors nevanimibe, Sandoz 58-035, and AZD 3988 with membranes has been 
investigated using lipid model membranes in conjunction with biophysical 
experimental (NMR, ESR, fluorescence) and theoretical (MD simulations) 
approaches. The data show, that the drugs (i) incorporate into lipid membranes, 
(ii) differently influence the structure of lipid membranes; (iii) affect 
membrane structure depending on the lipid composition; and (iv) do not cause 
hemolysis of red blood cells. The results are discussed with regard to the use 
of the drugs, in particular to better understand their efficacy and possible 
side effects.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2024.112385
PMID: 39406287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


92. Neuron. 2025 Jan 8;113(1):29-48. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2024.09.015. Epub 2024
 Oct 14.

Autophagy, aging, and age-related neurodegeneration.

Palmer JE(1), Wilson N(2), Son SM(1), Obrocki P(1), Wrobel L(1), Rob M(1), Takla 
M(1), Korolchuk VI(2), Rubinsztein DC(3).

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, Department of Medical Genetics, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, The Keith Peters Building, 
Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, The Keith Peters Building, Hills Road, 
Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.
(2)Biosciences Institute, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle University, 
Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5PL, UK.
(3)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, Department of Medical Genetics, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, The Keith Peters Building, 
Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK; UK Dementia Research Institute, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, The Keith Peters Building, Hills Road, 
Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK. Electronic address: dcr1000@cam.ac.uk.

Autophagy is a conserved mechanism that degrades damaged or superfluous cellular 
contents and enables nutrient recycling under starvation conditions. Many 
neurodegeneration-associated proteins are autophagy substrates, and autophagy 
upregulation ameliorates disease in many animal models of neurodegeneration by 
enhancing the clearance of toxic proteins, proinflammatory molecules, and 
dysfunctional organelles. Autophagy inhibition also induces neuronal and glial 
senescence, a phenomenon that occurs with increasing age in non-diseased brains 
as well as in response to neurodegeneration-associated stresses. However, aging 
and many neurodegeneration-associated proteins and mutations impair autophagy. 
This creates a potentially detrimental feedback loop whereby the accumulation of 
these disease-associated proteins impairs their autophagic clearance, 
facilitating their further accumulation and aggregation. Thus, understanding how 
autophagy interacts with aging, senescence, and neurodegenerative diseases in a 
temporal, cellular, and genetic context is important for the future clinical 
application of autophagy-modulating therapies in aging and neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2024.09.015
PMID: 39406236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests D.C.R. is a consultant 
for Aladdin Healthcare Technologies Ltd., Mindrank AI, Nido Biosciences, Drishti 
Discoveries, Retro Biosciences, PAQ Therapeutics, and Alexion Pharma 
International Operations Limited. V.I.K. is a consultant for Longaevus 
Technologies.


93. Geriatr Nurs. 2024 Nov-Dec;60:418-426. doi: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.09.025. 
Epub 2024 Oct 15.

Quality of life, care problems and care needs of Chinese older patients with 
dementia under the perspective of long-term care insurance.

Ren P(1), Liao M(1), Zhou L(1), Rong H(1), Zhong H(1), Li L(1), Xiao T(1), Li 
F(1), Zeng J(1), Chen X(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu 610083, Sichuan Province, 
China.
(2)School of Nursing, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu 610083, Sichuan Province, 
China. Electronic address: chenxiaoju@cmc.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: It is necessary for home caregivers to provide precise care for 
older people with dementia.
OBJECTIVES: To understand the home care quality of life and its influencing 
factors of older people with dementia who receive long-term care insurance, care 
issues and intrinsic care needs.
METHODS: We used descriptive statistical analyses to analyze existing care 
issues and care service needs. Meanwhile, multiple linear regression analysis 
was performed to explore factors affecting the quality of life of older people 
with dementia.
RESULTS: The quality of life of older people with dementia is poor and their 
daily care is particularly important.
CONCLUSIONS: In fact, there are still many problems in caring for older people 
with dementia at home. Administrators should consider formulating a scientific 
and targeted policy on home care services in the future.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2024.09.025
PMID: 39406152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflict of interest to declare.


94. Talanta. 2025 Jan 1;282:127020. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2024.127020. Epub 2024
 Oct 11.

Palladium-platinum bimetallic modified MXene nanozyme for highly sensitive 
detection of active substances with acetylcholinesterase inhibitory effect.

Zhang L(1), Li A(2), Shen M(3), Zhang Z(4), Wufuer R(4), Wang D(5).

Author information:
(1)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic Engineering, 
College of Life Science & Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi, 830046, 
China; School of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Institute of Materia Medica, 
Xinjiang University, Urumqi, 830017, China. Electronic address: 
zhanglu@xju.edu.cn.
(2)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic Engineering, 
College of Life Science & Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi, 830046, 
China; School of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Institute of Materia Medica, 
Xinjiang University, Urumqi, 830017, China.
(3)Xinjiang Key Laboratory of Biological Resources and Genetic Engineering, 
College of Life Science & Technology, Xinjiang University, Urumqi, 830046, 
China.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Institute of Materia Medica, Xinjiang 
University, Urumqi, 830017, China.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Institute of Materia Medica, Xinjiang 
University, Urumqi, 830017, China. Electronic address: wangdong@xju.edu.cn.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease that threatens 
to the health of global elderly population. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) 
inhibitors are an effective therapeutic agent for AD, and screening of these 
substances is important for AD treatment. In this work, a Pd-Pt MXene nanoenzyme 
was successfully synthesized by using the in-situ reduction technique. A 
colorimetric method for sensitive AChE inhibitor detection was designed based on 
enzymatic cascade reaction between Pd-Pt MXene and AChE. Briefly, The Pd-Pt 
MXene material exhibited excellent peroxidase (POD)-like activity due to its 
bimetallic composition, effectively catalyzing the oxidation of colorless 
3,3,5,5-tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) to generate blue oxidized TMB (oxTMB). Under 
the presence of AChE and acetylthiocholine chloride (ATCh), the POD-like 
activity of Pd-Pt MXene was significantly inhibited. The activity of this 
nanoenzyme could be restored after the addition of AChE inhibitors. Using 
donepezil as an example, colorimetric detection was conducted within a linear 
range of 0.1 nmol/L to 10 nmol/L and the lowest detection boundary was only 
0.35 nmol/L (S/N = 3). Finally, a paper-based platform was designed and 
constructed, and it has been successfully employed for AChE inhibitor detection 
in real samples with the aid of a smartphone. In all, this work paves a new way 
for designing nanoenzyme-based devices towards medicine determination or 
screening like AChE inhibitor.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2024.127020
PMID: 39406077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


95. Biomed Pharmacother. 2024 Nov;180:117540. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117540. 
Epub 2024 Oct 13.

Semaglutide ameliorates Alzheimer's disease and restores oxytocin in APP/PS1 
mice and human brain organoid models.

Zhang Y(1), Tang C(2), He Y(3), Zhang Y(4), Li Q(2), Zhang T(3), Zhao B(4), Tong 
A(1), Zhong Q(5), Zhong Z(6).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and Cancer Center, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.
(2)Sichuan Junhui Biotechnology Co. Ltd., No. 10 Furong Avenue 2, Wenjiang 
District, Chengdu 611100, China.
(3)Laboratory of Neurological Disease Modeling and Translational Research, West 
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.
(4)Laboratory of Neurological Disease Modeling and Translational Research, West 
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China; State Key Laboratory 
of Respiratory Health and Multimorbidity, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University, No. 37 Guoxue Alley, Wuhou District, Chengdu 610041, China.
(5)Laboratory of Neurological Disease Modeling and Translational Research, West 
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China; State Key Laboratory 
of Respiratory Health and Multimorbidity, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University, No. 37 Guoxue Alley, Wuhou District, Chengdu 610041, China. 
Electronic address: existenzqx@gmail.com.
(6)Laboratory of Neurological Disease Modeling and Translational Research, West 
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China; State Key Laboratory 
of Respiratory Health and Multimorbidity, West China Hospital, Sichuan 
University, No. 37 Guoxue Alley, Wuhou District, Chengdu 610041, China. 
Electronic address: zhongzhihui@scu.edu.cn.

AIMS: To investigate the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of Semaglutide in 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), and identify its potential targets.
METHODS: We systematically evaluated the effect of Semaglutide on Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), using both mice and human organoid models.
RESULTS: Behavioral analyses on APP/PS1 mice demonstrated that Semaglutide 
improved the cognitive capabilities, particularly in the learning and memory 
domains. Biochemical investigations further highlighted its role in reducing 
amyloid plaque deposition and down-regulating the expression of glial fibrillary 
acidic protein (GFAP) and ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1) 
expression in the mouse brain tissues. Meanwhile, oxytocin (OXT) was 
up-regulated after Semaglutide treatment. Subsequent studies using human 
AD-brain organoids (BOs) models revealed that, upon Semaglutide treatment, these 
AD-BO models also exhibited reduced levels of amyloid-beta (Aβ), phosphorylated 
Tau (p-Tau) and GFAP expression as well as increased OXT level.
CONCLUSIONS: Semaglutide can ameliorate Alzheimer's disease in pre-clinical 
models, suggesting the promising therapeutic potential in AD patients.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2024.117540
PMID: 39405916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


96. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2025 Feb;129:105655. doi:
10.1016/j.archger.2024.105655.  Epub 2024 Oct 9.

Relationship of urate-lowering drugs with cognition and dementia: A Mendelian 
randomization and observational study.

Liang C(1), Chen Y(2), Wang P(1), Zhang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Second Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, the Anxi County Maternal and Child Health Hospital, 
Quanzhou, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Second Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, China. Electronic address: zhangyin@fjmu.edu.cn.

Prior studies have presented paradoxical results regarding the association of 
uric acid-lowering drugs (ULDs) therapy with cognition and dementia. We aimed to 
explore this correlation. In this observational study, we extracted and analyzed 
the data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 
database and the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) database to 
investigate the association of ULDs with cognitive function and dementia. 
Two-simple Mendelian randomization (MR) and multivariable MR (MVMR) analyses 
were conducted to evaluate the causal associations of ULDs for all common types 
of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia (VD), 
frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). In the 
NHANES database, regardless of whether ULDs were included only or adjusted for 
covariates, the linear regression models did not find a correlation between ULDs 
and three cognitive tests (all p > 0.05). In the FAERS database, the dementia 
signal in ULDs lost significance after stepwise constraints (the lower limit of 
proportional reporting ratio lower than 1). In the two-sample MR analysis, 
allopurinol was associated with an increased risk of VD (OR = 123.747, p = 
0.002), and a positive causal relationship was found between uricosuric drugs 
and AD (OR = 1.003, p = 0.003). However, the significance disappeared after 
adjusting for risk factors of dementia (p > 0.05). This study indicates that 
ULDs may not be related to an increase or decrease risk of cognition function 
and dementia, including all common types of dementia (AD, VD, FTD, and DLB).

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2024.105655
PMID: 39405667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


97. Int J Pharm Compd. 2024 Sep-Oct;28(5):423-431.

Comparison of Oven Dried and Freeze Dried Orally Disintegrating Film (ODF) 
Formulations Containing Memantine Hydrochloride.

Phang HC(1), Tan JM(1), Subramaniam P(2), Uddin AH(3), Ee MH(4), 
Lakshminarayanan V(5), Liew KB(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Cyberjaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Taylor's University.
(3)International Islamic University Malaysia.
(4)Ministry of Health.
(5)Hindusthan Institute of Technology, Malumichampatti, Tamil Nadu, India.
(6)University of Cyberjaya, Selangor, Malaysia. liewkaia@yahoo.com.

Non-compliance is a serious healthcare issue. It contributes to waste of 
medication, deterioration of patient's quality of life and increase in 
healthcare cost. It is challenging to ensure Alzheimer's disease patients to 
comply to their medication daily. Hence, patient friendly and innovative dosage 
form is required to overcome the challenges. Orally disintegrating film (ODF) is 
proposed as solution to non-compliance. The objective of this research was to 
compare oven drying and freeze drying process on the physical properties of 
memantine hydrochloride ODF. A central composite design was used. The factors 
considered were concentration of Guar Gum (0.5-1.84g), concentration of wheat 
starch (0.5-1.84g) and concentration of PEG 400 (0.5-1.84g). A total of 20 
formulations for each drying method were prepared. The ODFs produced were then 
characterized using uniformity of thickness tensile strength, folding endurance, 
disintegration time test. The optimum formulation was selected and incorporated 
with memantine hydrochloride. A flexible Memantine hydrochloride ODF formulation 
with fast disintegration time, sufficient mechanical strength and stable over a 
period of six months was successfully developed. The optimum formulation has 
1.50 g guar gum, 1.50 g starch and 1.50 g of PEG 400. Freeze dried films are 
preferred as these films are more flexible and porous that lead to faster 
disintegration time. The findings suggest that memantine hydrochloride ODF has 
the potential as an alternative dosage form in treating Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright© by International Journal of Pharmaceutical Compounding, Inc.

PMID: 39405571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Int J Pharm Compd. 2024 Sep-Oct;28(5):402-407.

Taste Masking Study of Orally Disintegrating Film (ODF) Formulations Containing 
Memantine Hydrochloride.

Gobal G(1), Phang HC(1), Ng ZQ(1), Loke YH(1), Chew YL(2), Uddin AH(3), Lee 
SK(4), Lakshminarayanan V(5), Liew KB(1), Rahman SA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cyberjaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)UCSI University, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)International Islamic University Malaysia.
(4)Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman.
(5)Hindusthan Institute of Technology, Malumichampatti, Tamil Nadu, India.

Geriatric patients have difficulty to comply to their medication regimen due to 
complicated medication administration schedule, dysphagia, reduced ability to 
swallow tablets and dementia. This is particularly more challenging among the 
Alzheimer Disease's patients. Therefore, a model drug, memantine hydrochloride 
has been formulated into an orally disintegrating film (ODF) for easier 
consumption. However, bitter taste of memantine hydrochloride needs to be solved 
first if the drug is formulated into an ODF. The objective of this study is to 
taste mask memantine hydrochloride ODF and conduct a palatability study to 
evaluate the palatability of the dosage form. Memantine hydrochloride ODF was 
prepared using solvent casting method followed by freeze drying. The polymeric 
base consisted of Guar gum, PEG 400 and wheat starch in solvent water, with 
varying amounts of Aspartame or Acesulfame K for taste masking. The freeze-dried 
memantine hydrochloride ODFs were evaluated for tensile strength, in-vitro 
disintegration time, average thickness, dissolution, memantine hydrochloride 
content, and palatability. Formulation M7 was selected as the best taste masked 
formulation. Aspartame 30 mg is sufficient to cover the bitter taste of 
memantine hydrochloride in ODF form. A taste masked memantine hydrochloride ODF 
of dimensions 20 x 20 mm containing 30mg of aspartame was successfully 
developed. This formulation has average values for tensile strength 0.03 (0.01) 
kPa, folding endurance 351.92 (4.82) flips, thickness 0.94 (0.02) mm, and 
disintegration time 34.15 (2.16) seconds.

Copyright© by International Journal of Pharmaceutical Compounding, Inc.

PMID: 39405568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Nat Med. 2025 Jan;79(1):73-81. doi: 10.1007/s11418-024-01847-6. Epub 2024
Oct  15.

Seven undescribed meroterpenoids from Sargassum siliquastrum and their 
inhibitory activity against amyloid β aggregation.

Sekiguchi M(1), Horiuchi M(2), Tozawa Y(3), Shigemori H(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Bioresources and Environmental Science, Ishikawa 
Prefectural University, 1-308 Suematsu, Nonoichi, Ishikawa, 921-8836, Japan. 
m-seki@ishikawa-pu.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Bioresources and Environmental Science, Ishikawa 
Prefectural University, 1-308 Suematsu, Nonoichi, Ishikawa, 921-8836, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Science and Technology, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 
Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8572, Japan.
(4)Institute of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 
Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8572, Japan.
(5)Microbiology Research Center for Sustainability (MiCS), University of 
Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8572, Japan.

The inhibition of amyloid β (Aβ) aggregation and degradation of Aβ aggregates 
are promising approaches for treating and preventing Alzheimer's disease. In our 
search for Aβ42 aggregation inhibitors, we isolated seven undescribed 
meroterpenoids, sargasilides A (1)‒G (7), from brown alga (Sargassum 
siliquastrum) collected at Noto Peninsula in Japan. We structurally elucidated 
the isolated meroterpenoids using spectroscopic data and evaluated their 
activities using Thioflavin T assay and transmission electron microscopy. Among 
the seven compounds isolated, sargasilide B had the strongest inhibitory 
activity. From the comparison of structure and activity, the geometric isomerism 
of olefins and length of isoprene side chains are important for the activity of 
meroterpenoids isolated from brown alga.

© 2024. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Japanese Society of 
Pharmacognosy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11418-024-01847-6
PMID: 39404981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest related to this report or the 
study it describes.


100. Cells. 2024 Oct 4;13(19):1652. doi: 10.3390/cells13191652.

The Neolignan Honokiol and Its Synthetic Derivative Honokiol Hexafluoro Reduce 
Neuroinflammation and Cellular Senescence in Microglia Cells.

Sasia C(1), Borgonetti V(1), Mancini C(2), Lori G(2), Arbiser JL(3), Taddei 
ML(2), Galeotti N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Psychology, Drug Research and Child Health 
(Neurofarba), University of Floence, Viale G. Pieraccini 6, 50121 Florence, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, 
Viale Morgagni 50, 50134 Florence, Italy.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Emory School of Medicine, Winship Cancer 
Institute, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation has been linked to neurodegenerative 
disorders. Inflammation and aging contribute to microglial senescence. 
Microglial senescence promotes the development of neurodegenerative disorders, 
including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we investigated the 
anti-neuroinflammatory and anti-senescence activity of Honokiol (HNK), a 
polyphenolic neolignane from Magnolia officinalis Rehder & E.H Wilson, in 
comparison with its synthetic analogue Honokiol Hexafluoro (CH). HNK reduced the 
pro-inflammatory cell morphology of LPS-stimulated BV2 microglia cells and 
increased the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 with an 
efficacy comparable to CH. HNK and CH were also able to attenuate the 
alterations in cell morphology associated with cellular senescence in BV2 cells 
intermittently stimulated with LPS and significantly reduce the activity and 
expression of the senescence marker ß-galactosidase and the expression of p21 
and pERK1/2. The treatments reduced the expression of senescence-associated 
secretory phenotype (SASP) factors IL-1ß and NF-kB, decreased ROS production, 
and abolished H2AX over phosphorylation (γ-H2AX) and acetylated H3 
overexpression. Senescent microglia cells showed an increased expression of the 
Notch ligand Jagged1 that was reduced by HNK and CH with a comparable efficacy 
to the Notch inhibitor DAPT. Overall, our data illustrate a protective activity 
of HNK and CH on neuroinflammation and cellular senescence in microglia cells 
involving a Notch-signaling-mediated mechanism and suggesting a potential 
therapeutic contribution in aging-related neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/cells13191652
PMCID: PMC11482602
PMID: 39404415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.